---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/time-series-functions#seriesperioddetectfft
topic: clickhouse-release-23-12
ch_version_introduced: '5.7884792542982515'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

here, please reach out to us...but we will be finding you on twitter, etc as well. You can also view the [slides from the presentation](https://presentations.clickhouse.com/release_23.12). ## Refreshable Materialized Views [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-12#refreshable-materialized-views) ### Contributed by Michael Kolupaev, Michael Guzov [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-12#contributed-by-michael-kolupaev-michael-guzov)

Users new to ClickHouse often find themselves exploring materialized views to solve a wide range of data and query problems, from accelerating aggregation queries to data transformation tasks at insert time. At this point, the same users also often encounter a common source of confusion \- the expectation that Materialized Views in ClickHouse are similar to those they have used in other databases when they are just a query trigger executed at insert time on newly inserted rows! More precisely, when rows are inserted into ClickHouse as a block (usually consisting of at least 1000 rows), the query defined for a Materialized View is executed on the block, with the results stored in a different target table. This process is described succinctly in a recent video by our colleague Mark:

This feature is extremely powerful and, like most things in ClickHouse, has been deliberately designed for scale, with views updated **incrementally** as new data is inserted. However, there are use cases where this incremental process is not required or is not applicable. Some problems are either incompatible with an incremental approach or don't require real\-time updates, with a periodic rebuild being more appropriate. For example, you may want to periodically perform a complete recomputation of a view over the full dataset because it uses a complex join, which is incompatible with an incremental approach.

In 23\.12, we are pleased to announce the addition of Refreshable Materialized Views as an experimental feature to address these use cases! As well as allowing views to consist of a query that is periodically executed, with the results set to a target table, this feature can also be used to perform cron tasks in ClickHouse, e.g., periodically export from or to external data sources.

This significant feature deserves its own blog post (stay tuned!), especially given the number of problems it can potentially solve.

As an example, to introduce the syntax, let's consider a problem that may be challenging to address with a traditional incremental materialized view or even a classic view.
