---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/time-series-functions#seriesperioddetectfft
topic: clickhouse-release-23-12
ch_version_introduced: '5.7884792542982515'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

Osborne │ 544 │ 1.9575342 │ 16 │ 157 │ 2024-01-09 10:12:57 │ └────────┴─────────────────────┴────────────┴───────────┴──────────────┴────────────────┴─────────────────────┘ 5 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.003 sec. Processed 6.71 thousand rows, 275.66 KB (2.20 million rows/s., 90.31 MB/s.) Peak memory usage: 1.19 MiB. ```

This example represents a simple application of Refreshable Materialized Views. This feature has potentially much broader applications. The periodic nature of the query execution means it could potentially be used for periodic imports or exports to external data sources. Furthermore, these views can be chained with a `DEPENDS` clause to create dependencies between views, thereby allowing complex workflows to be constructed. For further details, see [the CREATE VIEW documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/view#refreshable-materialized-view).

We’d love to know how you are utilizing this feature and the problems it allows you to solve more efficiently now!

## Optimizations For FINAL [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-12#optimizations-for-final)

### Contributed by Maksim Kita [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-12#contributed-by-maksim-kita)

Automatic incremental background data transformation is an important concept in ClickHouse, allowing high data ingestion rates to be sustained at scale while continuously applying [table engine\-specific data modifications](https://youtu.be/QDAJTKZT8y4) when data parts are [merged](https://clickhouse.com/blog/supercharge-your-clickhouse-data-loads-part1#more-parts--more-background-part-merges) in the background. For example, the [ReplacingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree) engine retains only the most recently inserted version of a row based on the row’s sorting key column values and the creation timestamp of its containing data part when parts are merged. The [AggregatingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/aggregatingmergetree) engine collapses rows with equal sorting key values into an aggregated row during part merges.

As long as more than one part exists for a table, the table data is only in an intermediate state, i.e. outdated rows may exist for ReplacingMergeTree tables, and not all rows may have been aggregated yet for AggregatingMergeTree tables. In scenarios with continuous data ingestion (e.g. real\-time streaming scenarios), it is almost always the case that multiple parts exist for a table. Luckily, ClickHouse has you covered: ClickHouse provides [FINAL](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/from#final-modifier) as a modifier for the [FROM](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/from) clause of SELECT queries (e.g. `SELECT ... FROM table FINAL`), which applies missing data transformations on the fly at query time. While this is convenient and decouples the query result from the progress of background merges, FINAL may also slow down queries and increase memory consumption.
