---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

is usually from 1 to 3 GB/s per processor core, depending on the data. This is much faster than the typical disk subsystem. Moreover, we use all available CPU cores, and decompression scales linearly across all physical cores.

However, there are two points to keep in mind. First, compressed data is read from disk, but the decompression speed is given in terms of the amount of uncompressed data. If the compression ratio is large enough, there is almost nothing to read from the disks. But there will be a lot of decompressed data, and this naturally affects CPU utilization: in the case of LZ4, the amount of work necessary to decompress data is almost proportional to the volume of the decompressed data itself.

Second, if data is cached, you might not need to read data from disks at all. You can rely on page cache or use your own cache. Caching is more efficient in column\-oriented databases, since only frequently used columns stay in the cache. This is why LZ4 often appears to be a bottleneck in terms of CPU load.

This brings up two more questions. First, if decompression is slowing us down, is it worth compressing data to begin with? But this speculation is irrelevant in practice. ClickHouse offers several compression options, principally — LZ4 and [Zstandard](https://github.com/facebook/zstd/). LZ4 is used by default. Switching to Zstandard makes compression stronger and slower. But there wasn't an option to completely disable compression, since LZ4 is assumed to provide a reasonable minimal compression that can always be used. (Which is exactly why I love LZ4\.)
