---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

to Zstandard makes compression stronger and slower. But there wasn't an option to completely disable compression, since LZ4 is assumed to provide a reasonable minimal compression that can always be used. (Which is exactly why I love LZ4\.)

But then a mysterious stranger appeared in the [ClickHouse telegram support group](https://t.me/clickhouse_en) who said that he has a very fast disk subsystem (with NVMe SSD) and decompression is the only thing slowing his queries down, so it would be nice to be able to store data without compression. I replied that we don't have this option, but it would be easy to add. A few days later, we got a pull request implementing the compression method none. I asked the contributor to report back on how much this option helped to accelerate queries. The response was that this new feature turned out to be useless in practice, since the uncompressed data started to take up too much disk space and didn't fit into those NVMe drives.

The second question that arises is that if there is a cache, why not use it to store data that is already decompressed? This is a viable possibility that will eliminate the need for decompression in many cases. ClickHouse also has a cache like this: the [cache of decompressed blocks](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#setting-use_uncompressed_cache). But it's a pity to waste a lot of RAM on this. So usually it only makes sense to use on small, sequential queries that use nearly identical data.

Our conclusion is thus that it's always preferable to store data in a compressed format. Always write data to disk in compressed format. Transmit data over the network with compression, as well. In my opinion, default compression is justifiable even when transferring data within a single data center in a 10 GB network without oversubscription, while transferring uncompressed data between data centers is just unacceptable.

## Why LZ4? [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#why-lz4)

Why choose LZ4? Couldn't we choose something even lighter? Theoretically, we could, and this is a good thought. But let's look at the class of algorithms that LZ4 belongs to.
