---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

centers is just unacceptable. ## Why LZ4? [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#why-lz4) Why choose LZ4? Couldn't we choose something even lighter? Theoretically, we could, and this is a good thought. But let's look at the class of algorithms that LZ4 belongs to.

First of all, it's generic and doesn't adapt to the data type. For example, if you know in advance that you will have an array of integers, you can use one of the VarInt algorithms, and this will use the CPU more effectively. Second, LZ4 is not overly dependent on data model assumptions. Let's say you have an ordered time series of sensor values and an array of floating\-point numbers. If you consider this, you can calculate deltas between these numbers and then compress them with a generic algorithm, which will result in a higher compression ratio.

You won't have any problems using LZ4 with any byte arrays or files. Of course, it does have a specialization (more on that later), and in some cases, its use is pointless. But if we call it a general\-purpose algorithm, we'll be fairly close to the truth. We should note that thanks to its internal design, LZ4 automatically implements the [RLE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Run-length_encoding) algorithm as a special case.

However, the more important question is whether LZ4 is the most optimal algorithm of this class in terms of overall speed and strength of compression. Optimal algorithms are called the Pareto frontier, which means that no other algorithm is definitively better in one way and not worse in other ways (and on a wide variety of datasets, as well). Some algorithms are faster but result in a smaller compression ratio, while others have stronger compression but are slower to compress or decompress.
