---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

running these commands, we will get the original uncompressed data as the result. So that's basically how data is decompressed. The basic idea is clear: to perform compression, the algorithm encodes a repeated sequence of bytes using matches.

Some characteristics are also clear. This byte\-oriented algorithm does not dissect individual bytes; it only copies them in their entirety. This is how it differs from entropy encoding. For instance, [zstd](https://github.com/facebook/zstd/) is a combination of LZ77 and entropy encoding.

Note that the size of the compressed block shouldn't be too large. The size is chosen to avoid wasting a lot of RAM during decompression, to avoid slowing down random access too much in the compressed file (which consists of a large number of compressed blocks), and sometimes so the block will fit in a CPU cache. For example, you can choose 64 KB so that the buffers for compressed and uncompressed data will fit in the L2 cache with half still free.

If we need to compress a larger file, we can concatenate the compressed blocks. This is also convenient for storing additional data (like a checksum) with each compressed block.

The maximum offset for the match is limited. In LZ4, the limit is 64 kilobytes. This amount is called the sliding window. This means that matches can be found in a window of 64 kilobytes preceding the cursor, which slides with the cursor as it moves forward.

Now let's look at how to compress data, or, in other words, how to find matching sequences in a file. You can always use a suffix trie (it's great if you've actually heard of this). There are methods that guarantee that the longest match is located in the preceding bytes after compression. This is called optimal parsing, and it provides nearly the best compression ratio for a fixed\-format compressed block. But there are better approaches, such as finding a good\-enough match that is not necessarily the longest. The most efficient way to find it is using a hash table.
