---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

the best compression ratio for a fixed\-format compressed block. But there are better approaches, such as finding a good\-enough match that is not necessarily the longest. The most efficient way to find it is using a hash table.

To do this, we iterate the cursor through the original block of data and take a few bytes after the cursor (let's say 4 bytes). We hash them and put the offset from the beginning of the block (where the 4 bytes were taken from) into the hash table. The value 4 is called "min\-match" — using this hash table, we can find matches of at least 4 bytes.

If we look at the hash table and it already has a matching record, and the offset doesn't exceed the sliding window, we check to see how many more bytes match after those 4 bytes. Maybe there are a lot more matches. It is also possible that there is a collision in the hash table, and nothing matches, but this is not a big deal. You can just replace the value in the hash table with a new one. Collisions in the hash table will simply lead to a lower compression ratio since there will be fewer matches. By the way, this type of hash table (with a fixed size and no resolution of collisions) is called a "cache table". This name makes sense because, in the event of a collision, the cache table simply forgets about the old entry.

> A challenge for the careful reader. Let's assume that the data is an array of UInt32 numbers in little endian format that represents a part of a sequence of natural numbers: 0, 1, 2… Explain why this data isn't compressed when using LZ4 (the size of the compressed data isn't any smaller compared to the uncompressed data).

## How to speed everything up [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#how-to-speed-everything-up)

So I want to speed up LZ4 decompression. Let's see how the decompression loop looks like. Here it is in pseudocode:

```
while (...)
{
   read(input_pos, literal_length, match_length);

   copy(output_pos, input_pos, literal_length);
   output_pos += literal_length;

   read(input_pos, match_offset);

   copy(output_pos, output_pos - match_offset,
       match_length);
   output_pos += match_length;
}

```
