---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

Let's see how the decompression loop looks like. Here it is in pseudocode: ``` while (...) { read(input_pos, literal_length, match_length); copy(output_pos, input_pos, literal_length); output_pos += literal_length; read(input_pos, match_offset); copy(output_pos, output_pos - match_offset, match_length); output_pos += match_length; } ```

LZ4 format is designed so that literals and matches alternate in a compressed file. Obviously, the literal always comes first (because there's nowhere to take a match from at the very beginning). Therefore, their lengths are encoded together.

It's actually a little more complicated than this. One byte is read from the file, and then it's split into two nibbles (half\-bytes) which contain the encoded numbers 0 to 15\. If the corresponding number is not 15, it is assumed to be the length of the literal and match, respectively. And if it is 15, the length is longer, and it is encoded in the following bytes. Then the next byte is read, and its value is added to the length. If it is equal to 255, the same thing is done with the next byte.

Note that the maximum compression ratio for LZ4 format does not reach 255\. And another useless observation is that if your data is very redundant, using LZ4 twice will improve the compression ratio.

When we read the length of a literal (and then the match length and the match offset), just copying two blocks of memory is enough to decompress it.

### How to copy a memory block [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#how-to-copy-a-memory-block)

It would seem that you could just use the `memcpy` function, which is designed to copy memory blocks. But this is not the optimal approach and not really appropriate.

Using memcpy isn't optimal because:

1. It is usually located in the libc library (and the libc library is usually dynamically linked, so the memcpy call will be made indirectly via PLT).
2. It is not inlined by compiler if the size argument is unknown at compile time.
3. It puts out a lot of effort to correctly process the leftovers of a memory block that are not multiples of the machine word length or register.

The last point is the most important. Let's say we asked the `memcpy` function to copy exactly 5 bytes. It would be great to copy 8 bytes right away, using two movq instructions.

`Hello world Hello wo...
