---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

register. The last point is the most important. Let's say we asked the `memcpy` function to copy exactly 5 bytes. It would be great to copy 8 bytes right away, using two movq instructions. `Hello world Hello wo...

^^^^^^^^ - src

            ^^^^^^^^ - dst`

But then we'll be copying three extra bytes, so we'll be writing outside of buffer bounds. The `memcpy` function doesn't have permission to do this, because it could overwrite some data in our program and lead to a memory stomping bug. And if we wrote to an unaligned address, these extra bytes could land on an unallocated page of virtual memory or on a page without write access. That would give us a segmentation fault (this is good).

But in our case, we can almost always write extra bytes. We can read extra bytes in the input buffer as long as the extra bytes are located entirely inside it. Under the same conditions, we can write the extra bytes to the output buffer, because we will still overwrite them on the next iteration.

This optimization is already in the original implementation of LZ4:

```
inline void copy8(UInt8 * dst, const UInt8 * src)
{
   memcpy(dst, src, 8);    /// Note that memcpy isn't actually called here.
}

inline void wildCopy8(UInt8 * dst, const UInt8 * src, UInt8 * dst_end)
{
   do
   {
       copy8(dst, src);
       dst += 8;
       src += 8;
   } while (dst < dst_end);
}

```

To take advantage of this optimization, we just need to make sure that we are far enough away from the buffer bounds. This shouldn't cost anything, because we are already checking for buffer overflow. And processing the last few bytes, the "leftover" data, can be done after the main loop.

However, there are still a few nuances. Copying occurs twice in the loop: with a literal and a match. However, when using the `LZ4_decompress_fast` function (instead of `LZ4_decompress_safe`), the check is performed only once, when we need to copy the literal. The check is not performed when copying the match, but the [specification for the LZ4 format](https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/master/doc/lz4_Block_format.md) has conditions that allow you to avoid it:
