---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

`LZ4_decompress_safe`), the check is performed only once, when we need to copy the literal. The check is not performed when copying the match, but the [specification for the LZ4 format](https://github.com/lz4/lz4/blob/master/doc/lz4_Block_format.md) has conditions that allow you to avoid it:

- The last 5 bytes are always literals.
- The last match must start at least 12 bytes before the end of block.
- Consequently, a block with less than 13 bytes cannot be compressed.

Specially selected input data may lead to memory corruption. If you use the `LZ4_decompress_fast` function, you need protection from bad data. At the very least, you should calculate checksums for the compressed data. If you need protection from hackers, use the `LZ4_decompress_safe` function. Other options: take a cryptographic hash function as the checksum (although this is likely to destroy performance); allocate more memory for buffers; allocate memory for buffers with a separate `mmap` call and create a guard page.

When I see code that copies 8 bytes of data, I immediately wonder why exactly 8 bytes. You can copy 16 bytes using SSE registers:

```
inline void copy16(UInt8 * dst, const UInt8 * src)
{
#if __SSE2__
    _mm_storeu_si128(reinterpret_cast<__m128i *>(dst),
        _mm_loadu_si128(reinterpret_cast<const __m128i *>(src)));
#else
    memcpy(dst, src, 16);
#endif
}

inline void wildCopy16(UInt8 * dst, const UInt8 * src, UInt8 * dst_end)
{
    do
    {
        copy16(dst, src);
        dst += 16;
        src += 16;
    } while (dst < dst_end);
}

```

The same thing works for copying 32 bytes for AVX and 64 bytes for AVX\-512\. In addition, you can unroll the loop several times. If you have ever looked at how `memcpy` is implemented, this is exactly the approach that is used. (By the way, the compiler won't unroll or vectorize the loop in this case, because this will require inserting bulky checks.)

Why didn't the original LZ4 implementation do this? First, it isn't clear whether this is better or worse. The resulting gain depends on the size of the blocks to copy, so if they are all short, it would be creating extra work for nothing. And secondly, it ruins the provisions in the LZ4 format that help avoid an unnecessary branch in the internal loop.

However, we will keep this option in mind for the time being.

### Tricky copying [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#tricky-copying)
