---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

for nothing. And secondly, it ruins the provisions in the LZ4 format that help avoid an unnecessary branch in the internal loop. However, we will keep this option in mind for the time being. ### Tricky copying [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#tricky-copying)

Let's go back to the question of whether it's always possible to copy data this way. Let's say we need to copy a match, that is, take a piece of memory from the output buffer that is located at some offset behind the cursor and copy it to the cursor position.

Imagine a simple case when you need to copy 5 bytes at an offset of 12:

`Hello world ...........  

^^^^^ - src  

            ^^^^^ - dst  

Hello world Hello wo...  

^^^^^ - src  

            ^^^^^ - dst`

But there is a more difficult case, when we need to copy a block of memory that is longer than the offset. In other words, it includes some data that has not yet been written to the output buffer.

Copy 10 bytes at an offset of 3:

`abc.............  

^^^^^^^^^^ - src  

   ^^^^^^^^^^ - dst  

abcabcabcabca...  

^^^^^^^^^^ - src  

   ^^^^^^^^^^ - dst`

We have all the data during the compression process, and such a match may well be found. The `memcpy` function is not suitable for copying it, because it doesn't support the case when ranges of memory blocks overlap. The `memmove` function won't work either, because the block of memory that the data should be taken from has not been fully initialized yet. We need to copy the same way as if we were copying byte by byte.

```
op[0] = match[0];
op[1] = match[1];
op[2] = match[2];
op[3] = match[3];
...

```

Here's how it works:

`abca............  

^ - src  

   ^ - dst  

abcab...........  

 ^ - src  

    ^ - dst  

abcabc..........  

  ^ - src  

     ^ - dst  

abcabca.........  

   ^ - src  

     ^ - dst  

abcabcab........  

    ^ - src  

       ^ - dst`

In other words, we must create a repeating sequence. The original implementation of LZ4 used some surprisingly strange code to do this:
