---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

12, 13, 14, 0, }; _mm_storeu_si128(reinterpret_cast<__m128i *>(op), _mm_shuffle_epi8( _mm_loadu_si128(reinterpret_cast<const __m128i *>(match)), _mm_load_si128(reinterpret_cast<const __m128i *>(masks) + offset))); match += masks[offset]; #else copyOverlap16(op, match, offset); #endif } ``` Here \_mm\_shuffle\_epi8 is an [intrinsic](https://software.intel.com/sites/landingpage/IntrinsicsGuide/#text=_mm_shuffle_epi8), which compiles to the pshufb CPU instruction.

Can we perform this operation for more bytes at once using newer instructions? After all, SSSE3 is a very old instruction set that has been around since 2006\. AVX2 has an instruction that does this for 32 bytes at once, but separately for individual 16\-byte lanes. This is called vector permute bytes, rather than packed shuffle bytes — the words are different, but the meaning is the same. AVX\-512 VBMI has another instruction that works for 64 bytes at once, but processors that support it have only appeared recently. ARM NEON has similar instructions called vtbl (vector table lookup), but they only allow writing 8 bytes.

In addition, there is a version of the pshufb instruction with 64\-bit MMX registers in order to form 8 bytes. It is just right for replacing the original version of the code. However, I decided to use the 16\-byte option instead (for serious reasons).

At the Highload\+\+ Siberia conference, an attendee came up to me after my presentation and mentioned that for the 8\-byte case, you can just use multiplication by a specially selected constant (you will also need an offset) — this hadn't even occurred to me before!

### How to remove a superfluous if statement [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#how-to-remove-a-superfluous-if-statement)

Let's say I want to use a variant that copies 16 bytes. How can I avoid having to do an additional check for buffer overflow?

I decided that I just wouldn't do this check. The comments on the function will say that the developer should allocate a block of memory for a specified number of bytes more than it is required, so that we can read and write unnecessary garbage there. The interface of the function will be harder to use, but there is a different issue.
