---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

memory for a specified number of bytes more than it is required, so that we can read and write unnecessary garbage there. The interface of the function will be harder to use, but there is a different issue.

Actually, there could be negative consequences. Let's say the data that we need to decompress was formed from blocks of 65,536 bytes each. Then the user gives us a piece of memory that is 65,536 bytes for the decompressed data. But with the new function interface, the user will be required to allocate a memory block that is 65,551 bytes, for example. Then the allocator may be forced to actually allocate 96 or even 128 kilobytes, depending on its implementation. If the allocator is very bad, it might suddenly stop caching memory in "heap" and start using mmap and munmap each time for memory allocation (or release memory using madvice). This process will be extremely slow because of page faults. As a result, this little bit of optimization might end up slowing everything down.

## Is there any acceleration? [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#is-there-any-acceleration)

So I made a version of the code that uses three optimizations:

1. Copying 16 bytes instead of 8\.
2. Using the shuffle instructions for the `offset < 16` case.
3. Removed one extra if.

I started testing this code on different sets of data and got unexpected results.

```
Example 1:
Xeon E2650v2, Browser data, AppVersion column.
Reference: 1.67 GB/sec.
16 bytes, shuffle: 2.94 GB/sec (76% faster).

Example 2:
Xeon E2650v2, Direct data, ShowsSumPosition column.
Reference: 2.30 GB/sec.
16 bytes, shuffle: 1.91 GB/sec (20% slower).

```

I was really happy at first, when I saw that everything had accelerated by such a large percentage. Then I saw that nothing was any faster with other files. It was even a little bit slower for some of them. I concluded that the results depend on the compression ratio. The more compressed the file, the greater the advantage of switching to 16 bytes. This feels natural: the larger the compression ratio, the longer the average length of fragments to copy.

To investigate, I used C\+\+ templates to make code variants for four cases: using 8\-byte or 16\-byte chunks, and with or without the shuffle instruction.
