---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 18
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

larger the compression ratio, the longer the average length of fragments to copy. To investigate, I used C\+\+ templates to make code variants for four cases: using 8\-byte or 16\-byte chunks, and with or without the shuffle instruction.

```
template <size_t copy_amount, bool use_shuffle>
void NO_INLINE decompressImpl(
    const char * const source,
    char * const dest,
    size_t dest_size)

```

Completely different variants of the code performed better on different files, but when testing on a desktop the version with shuffle always won. Testing on a desktop is inconvenient because you have to do this:

```
sudo echo 'performance' | tee /sys/devices/system/cpu/cpu*/cpufreq/scaling_governor
kill -STOP $(pidof firefox) $(pidof chromium)

```

Then I went on one of the old "development" servers (with the Xeon E5645 processor), took even more datasets, and got almost the opposite results, which totally confused me. It turns out that the choice of optimal algorithm depends on the processor model, in addition to the compression ratio. The processor determines when it is best to use the shuffle instruction, as well as the threshold for when to start using 16\-byte copying.

By the way, when testing on our servers, it made sense to do this:

```
sudo kill -STOP $(pidof python) $(pidof perl) $(pgrep -u skynet) $(pidof cqudp-client)

```

Otherwise, the results will be unstable. Also watch out for thermal throttling and power capping.

## How to choose the best algorithm [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#how-to-choose-the-best-algorithm)

So we have four variants of the algorithm, and we need to choose the best one for the conditions. We could create a representative set of data and hardware, then perform serious load testing and choose the method that is best on average. But we don't have a representative dataset. For testing, I used a sample of [Web Analytics Data](http://getting) and [flights in the United States](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime). But this isn't sufficient because ClickHouse is used by hundreds of companies around the world. By over\-optimizing one dataset, we might cause a drop in performance with other data and not even realize it. And if the results depend on the processor model, we'll have to explicitly write the conditions in the code and test it on each model (or consult the reference manual on timing instructions, what do you think?). In either case, this is too time\-consuming.
