---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 19
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

the processor model, we'll have to explicitly write the conditions in the code and test it on each model (or consult the reference manual on timing instructions, what do you think?). In either case, this is too time\-consuming.

So I decided to use another method, which is obvious to colleagues who studied at our School of Data Analysis: ["multi\-armed bandits"](https://learnforeverlearn.com/bandits/). The point is that the variant of the algorithm is chosen randomly, and then we use statistics to progressively choose the variants that perform better.

Many blocks of data need to be decompressed, so we need independent function calls for decompressing data. We could choose one of the four algorithms for each block and measure its execution time. An operation like this usually costs nothing in comparison with processing a block of data, and in ClickHouse, a block of uncompressed data is at least 64 KB. (Read this [article](http://btorpey.github.io/blog/2014/02/18/clock-sources-in-linux/) about measuring time).

To get a better understanding of how the "multi\-armed bandits" algorithm works, let's look at where the name comes from. This is an analogy with slot machines in a casino which have several levers that a player can pull to get some random amount of money. The player can pull the levers multiple times in any order. Each lever has a fixed probability for the corresponding amount of money given out, but the player does not know how it works and can only learn it from experience playing the game. Once they figure it out, they can maximize their winnings.

One approach to maximizing the reward is to evaluate the probability distribution for each lever at each step based on the game statistics from previous steps. Then we mentally "win" a random reward for each lever based on the distributions received. Finally, we pull the lever that had the best outcome in our mental game. This approach is called Thompson Sampling.
