---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 20
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

from previous steps. Then we mentally "win" a random reward for each lever based on the distributions received. Finally, we pull the lever that had the best outcome in our mental game. This approach is called Thompson Sampling.

But we are choosing a decompression algorithm. The result is the execution time in picoseconds per byte: the fewer, the better. We will consider the execution time to be a random variable and evaluate its distribution using mathematical statistics. The Bayesian approach is often used for tasks like this, but it would be cumbersome to insert complex formulas into C\+\+ code. We can use a parametric approach and say that a random variable belongs to a parametric family of random variables and then evaluate its parameters.

How do we select the family of random variables? As an example, we could assume that the code execution time has a normal distribution. But this is absolutely wrong. First, the execution time can't be negative, and normal distribution takes values everywhere on the number line. Second, I assume that the execution time will have a heavy "tail" on the right end.

However, there are factors that could make it a good idea to estimate normal distribution only for the purposes of Thompson Sampling (despite the fact that the distribution of the target variable is not necessarily normal). The reason for this is that it is very easy to calculate the mathematical expectation and the variance, and after a sufficient number of iterations, a normal distribution becomes fairly narrow, similar to the distributions that we would have obtained using other methods. If we aren't too concerned with the convergence rate at the first steps, these details can be ignored.

This may seem like a somewhat ignorant approach. Experience has shown us that the average time for query execution, website page loading, and so on is "garbage" that isn't worth calculating. It would be better to calculate the median, which is a [robust statistic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robust_statistics). But this is a little more difficult, and as I will show later, the described method justifies itself for practical purposes.

At first, I implemented the calculation of the mathematical expectation and variance, but then I decided that this was too good, and I needed to simplify the code to make it "worse":
