---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 21
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

method justifies itself for practical purposes. At first, I implemented the calculation of the mathematical expectation and variance, but then I decided that this was too good, and I needed to simplify the code to make it "worse":

```
/// For better convergence, we don't use proper estimate of stddev.
/// We want to eventually separate the two algorithms even in cases
///  when there is no statistical significant difference between them.
double sigma() const
{
    return mean() / sqrt(adjustedCount());
}

double sample(pcg64 & rng) const
{
    ...
    return std::normal_distribution<>(mean(), sigma())(rng);
}

```

I wrote it so that the first few iterations were not taken into account, to eliminate the effect of memory latencies.

The result is a test program that can select the best algorithm for the input data, with optional modes that use the reference implementation of LZ4 or a specific version of the algorithm.

So there are six options:

- Reference (baseline): original LZ4 without our modifications
- Variant 0: copy 8 bytes at a time without shuffle.
- Variant 1: copy 8 bytes at a time with shuffle.
- Variant 2: copy 16 bytes at a time without shuffle.
- Variant 3: copy 16 bytes at a time with shuffle.
- The "bandit" option, which selects the best of the four optimized variants.

## Testing on different CPUs [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#testing-on-different-cpus)

If the result strongly depends on the CPU model, it would be interesting to find out exactly how it is affected. There might be an exceptionally large difference on certain CPUs.

I prepared a set of datasets from different tables in ClickHouse with real data, for a total of 256 different files each with 100 MB of uncompressed data (the number 256 was coincidental). Then I looked at the CPUs of the servers where I can run benchmarks. I found servers with the following CPUs:
