---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 22
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

total of 256 different files each with 100 MB of uncompressed data (the number 256 was coincidental). Then I looked at the CPUs of the servers where I can run benchmarks. I found servers with the following CPUs:

- Intel® Xeon® CPU E5\-2650 v2 @ 2\.60GHz
- Intel® Xeon® CPU E5\-2660 v4 @ 2\.00GHz
- Intel® Xeon® CPU E5\-2660 0 @ 2\.20GHz
- Intel® Xeon® CPU E5645 @ 2\.40GHz
- Intel Xeon E312xx (Sandy Bridge)
- AMD Opteron(TM) Processor 6274
- AMD Opteron(tm) Processor 6380
- Intel® Xeon® CPU E5\-2683 v4 @ 2\.10GHz
- Intel® Xeon® CPU E5530 @ 2\.40GHz
- Intel® Xeon® CPU E5440 @ 2\.83GHz
- Intel® Xeon® CPU E5\-2667 v2 @ 3\.30GHz

The most interesting part comes next — the following processors were also made available:

- AMD EPYC 7351 16\-Core Processor, a new AMD server processor at the time.
- Cavium ThunderX2, which is AArch64, not x86\. For these, my SIMD optimization needed to be reworked a bit. The server has 224 logical and 56 physical cores.

There are 13 servers in total, and each of them runs the test on 256 files in 6 variants (reference, 0, 1, 2, 3, adaptive). The test is run ten times, alternating between the options in random order. It outputs 199,680 results that we can compare.

For example, we can compare different CPUs with each other. But we shouldn't jump to conclusions from these results because we are only testing the LZ4 decompression algorithm on a single core (this is a very narrow case, so we only get a micro\-benchmark). For example, the Cavium has the lowest performance per single core. But I tested ClickHouse on it myself, and it wins out over Xeon E5\-2650 v2 on heavy queries due to the greater number of cores, even though it is missing many optimizations that are made in ClickHouse specifically for the x86\.
