---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abraham_Lempel
topic: speeding-up-lz4-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.67'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 24
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

E5440 @ 2.83GHz │ 1.35 │ 1.33 │ 1.42 │ 1 │ 0.99 │ 1.05 │ 0.94 │ │ Cavium ThunderX2 │ 0.84 │ 0.87 │ 0.87 │ 0 │ 1.04 │ 1.04 │ 1 │ └───────────────────────┴──────┴───────┴──────┴──────┴─────────────┴───────────┴────────────────┘ ```

- ref, adapt, max \- The speed in gigabytes per second (the value that is the reverse of the arithmetic mean of time for all launches on all datasets).
- best \- The number of the best algorithm among the optimized variants, from 0 to 3\.
- adapt\_boost \- The relative advantage of the adaptive algorithm compared to the baseline.
- max\_boost \- The relative advantage of the best of the non\-adaptive variants compared to the baseline.
- adapt\_over\_max \- The relative advantage of the adaptive algorithm over the best non\-adaptive one.

The results show that we were able to speed up decompression by 12\-20% on modern x86 processors. Even on ARM we saw 4% improvement, despite the fact that we didn't optimize much for this architecture. It is also clear that on average for different datasets, the "bandit" algorithm comes out ahead of the pre\-selected best variant on all processors (except for very old Intel CPUs).

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse#conclusion)

In practice, the usefulness of this work is dubious. Yes, LZ4 decompression was accelerated on average by 12\-20%, and on some datasets, the performance more than doubled. But in general, this doesn't have much effect on query execution time. It's difficult to find real queries that gain more than a couple of percents in speed.

At the time, we decided to use ZStandard level 1 instead of LZ4 on several clusters intended for executing long queries; because it is more important to save IO and disk space on cold data. Keep this in mind if you have a similar workload.

We observed the greatest benefits from optimizing decompression in highly compressible data, such as columns with mostly duplicate string values. However, we have developed a separate solution specifically for this scenario that allows us to significantly speed up queries over this kind of data.
