---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/
topic: streamkap-an-out-of-the-box-cdc-solution-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '37.368'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

Streamkap offers **at\-least\-once** delivery guarantee for ClickHouse. With insert ingestion mode, it’s possible that some duplicate rows can be inserted into ClickHouse. However, by adding in dedupe code into your materialized view, there will not be any impact.

As mentioned earlier, for the upsert ingestion mode, we carry out deduplication with the source record key. Enforcing **exactly\-once** delivery guarantees adds a performance penalty without any additional benefit since the same process handles duplicated CDC events, merging all CDC events for one record into the final record state.

### Transforms [\#](/blog/change-data-capture-solution-clickhouse-streamkap-cdc#transforms)

Streamkap supports transformations in the pipeline so that data can be sent to ClickHouse pre\-processed.

This is especially useful for semi\-structured data, pre\-processing, and cleanup tasks. This can be significantly more efficient than working on the data post\-ingestion.

Real\-time analytics on cleaned\-up structured data is naturally done in ClickHouse, with the query performance benefiting from moving data transformation to insert time.

Below, we present some common transformations performed by Streamkap.

#### Fix inconsistencies in semi\-structured data [\#](/blog/change-data-capture-solution-clickhouse-streamkap-cdc#fix-inconsistencies-in-semi-structured-data)

Consider the fixing of an inconsistent semi\-structured date field:

```
"someDateField": {"$date": "2023-08-04T09:12:20.29Z"}
"someDateField": "2023-08-07T08:14:57.817325+00:00"
"someDateField": {"$date": {"$numberLong": 1702853448000}}

```

Using Streamkap transforms, all records can be converted to a common format for ingestion into Clickhouse [DateTime64](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/datetime64) column:

```
"someDateField": "yyyy-MM-dd HH:mm:ss.SSS"

```

#### Split large semi\-structured JSON documents [\#](/blog/change-data-capture-solution-clickhouse-streamkap-cdc#split-large-semi-structured-json-documents)

With document databases, child entities can be modelled as sub\-arrays nested inside the parent entity document:

```
{
    "key": "abc1234",
    "array": [
        {
            "id": "11111",
            "someField": "aa-11"
        },
        {
            "id": "22222",
            "someField": "bb-22"
        }
    ]
}

```

In ClickHouse it can make sense to represent these child entities as separate rows. Using Streamkap transforms, the child entity records can be split into individual records:

```
{
    "id": "11111",
    "parentKey": "abc1234",
    "someField": "aa-11"
}

{
    "id": "22222",
    "parentKey": "abc1234",
    "someField": "bb-22"
}

```

### Schema evolution [\#](/blog/change-data-capture-solution-clickhouse-streamkap-cdc#schema-evolution-1)

Schema evolution or drift handling is the process of making changes to the destination tables to reflect upstream changes.

The Streamkap connector automatically handles schema drift in the following scenarios.
