---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://www.altinity.com/blog/2019/3/15/clickhouse-networking-part-1
topic: network-configuration-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# Network Configuration \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Setup \& maintenance](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/)
2. [Production Cluster Configuration Guide](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/cluster-production-configuration-guide/)
3. Network Configuration
# Network Configuration

### **Networking And Server Room Planning**

The network used for your ClickHouse® cluster should be a fast network, ideally 10 Gbit or more.
ClickHouse nodes generate a lot of traffic to exchange the data between nodes (port 9009 for replication, and 9000 for distributed queries).
Zookeeper traffic in normal circumstances is moderate, but in some special cases can also be very significant.

For the zookeeper low latency is more important than bandwidth.

Keep the replicas isolated on the hardware level. This allows for cluster failover from possible outages.

- For Physical Environments: Avoid placing 2 ClickHouse replicas on the same server rack. Ideally, they should be on isolated network switches and an isolated power supply.
- For Clouds Environments: Use different availability zones between the ClickHouse replicas when possible (but be aware of the interzone traffic costs)

These considerations are the same as the Zookeeper nodes.

For example:

| **Rack** | **Server** | **Server** | **Server** | **Server** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Rack 1** | **CH\_SHARD1\_R1** | **CH\_SHARD2\_R1** | **CH\_SHARD3\_R1** | **ZOO\_1** |
| **Rack 2** | **CH\_SHARD1\_R2** | **CH\_SHARD2\_R2** | **CH\_SHARD3\_R2** | **ZOO\_2** |
| **Rack 3** | **ZOO3** |  |  |  |

#### **Network Ports And Firewall**

ClickHouse listens the following ports:

- 9000: clickhouse\-client, native clients, other clickhouse\-servers connect to here.
- 8123: HTTP clients
- 9009: Other replicas will connect here to download data.

For more information, see [CLICKHOUSE NETWORKING, PART 1](https://www.altinity.com/blog/2019/3/15/clickhouse-networking-part-1)
.

Zookeeper listens the following ports:

- 2181: Client connections.
- 2888: Inter\-ensemble connections.
- 3888: Leader election.

Outbound traffic from ClickHouse connects to the following ports:

- ZooKeeper: On port 2181\.
- Other CH nodes in the cluster: On port 9000 and 9009\.
- Dictionary sources: Depending on what was configured such as HTTP, MySQL, Mongo, etc.
- Kafka or Hadoop: If those integrations were enabled.

### **SSL**

For non\-trusted networks enable SSL/HTTPS. If acceptable, it is better to keep interserver communications unencrypted for performance reasons.

### **Naming Schema**

The best time to start creating a naming schema for the servers is before they’re created and configured.
