---
source: blog
url: https://clickpy.clickhouse.com/
topic: building-single-page-applications-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

since credentials will be visible to users of an application. To create a user with no password: ``` -- oss CREATE USER play IDENTIFIED WITH no_password; -- clickhouse cloud CREATE USER play IDENTIFIED WITH double_sha1_hash BY 'BE1BDEC0AA74B4DCB079943E70528096CCA985F8'; ```

Generally we recommend creating a role, in case further users are required (for now we assume all clients use the same user), and granting this the following permissions.

Initially, establish the tables and columns the web user should be able to access \- granting `SELECT` accordingly. For example, the following allows any user with the `play_role` to read all tables (and columns) in the `pypi` database. Users with this role are limited to reading the `event_type` and `actor_login` columns (this must be done explicitly i.e. `*` is not permitted) for the `events` table in the `github` database.

Note we also grant the role to our earlier `play` user.

```
-- create the role
CREATE ROLE play_role;
-- limit read on the columns event_type, actor_login for the github.events table
GRANT SELECT(event_type, actor_login ) ON github.events TO play_role;
-- allow select on all tables in the pypi database
GRANT SELECT ON pypi.* TO play_role;
-- grant the role to the user
GRANT play_role TO play;

```

> Row\-based policies can also be applied, allowing users to see only specific rows for a given table. See [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/row-policy) for further details.

#### Read\-only \& common limits [\#](/blog/building-single-page-applications-with-clickhouse-and-http#read-only--common-limits)

The above creates a limited user with `SELECT` permissions. We can apply further constraints by creating a [settings profile](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-profiles) and applying this to the role.

This profile should further limit the user to read\-only operations, setting `read_only=1` for the user's role. This limits to read\-only queries while also preventing queries that modify session context or change settings. While this imposes read only restrictions to the user it does not limit their abilities to execute complex queries. For this, we can add [restrictions on query complexity](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/query-complexity) to the profile.

These allow fine control over all aspects of the execution. The number of settings here is extensive, but at a minimum, we recommend the following:
