---
source: blog
url: https://clickpy.clickhouse.com/
topic: building-single-page-applications-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

endpoints requires modifying the clickhouse.xml configuration. > Some users may also not feel comfortable exposing their ClickHouse HTTP interface. Query Endpoints help address these concerns by limiting the queries that can be executed, thus reducing the attack surface.

ClickHouse Cloud exposes a similar but more advanced feature in [Query Endpoints](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/get-started/query-endpoints) using a token\-based authentication mechanism. In addition to templating queries, users can assign roles to the endpoints (through which settings constraints and quotas can be applied) and configure CORs per endpoint. These endpoints can be easily added or modified at any time from the ClicKHouse Cloud's unified console.

API endpoints do more than simplify an interface \- they add separation of concerns. As well as making it simpler to update an application query, without having to modify or redeploy the code, this allows teams to easily expose analytics without needing to write SQL or interact directly with a ClickHouse database owned by different teams. All of the best practices we have outlined above are abstracted behind these endpoints, with developers just tasked with interacting with simple REST API endpoints.

For an example of this, we recommend [this blog](https://clickhouse.com/blog/adding-analytics-to-an-application-with-clickhouse-query-endpoints).

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/building-single-page-applications-with-clickhouse-and-http#conclusion)

A client\-only architecture can be ideal for small applications, demos,, and single\-page applications, simplifying development and enabling faster iteration with scaling concerns offloaded to the database. This does, however, require the target database to support both an HTTP interface and the required features to make the database safe to expose clients. While Firebase and Supabase have popularized this architecture for OLTP workloads, ClickHouse has the necessary features to allow this to be adopted for real\-time analytics. We have provided comprehensive recommendations for configuring ClickHouse to be used in such an architecture. For users looking for a simpler experience, Query Endpoints in ClickHouse abstract much of the complexity away and allow ClickHouse’s fast analytical query capabilities to be consumed over simple REST endpoints.

[Get started](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog) with ClickHouse Cloud today and receive $300 in credits. At the end of your 30\-day trial, continue with a pay\-as\-you\-go plan, or [contact us](/company/contact?loc=blog-cta-footer) to learn more about our volume\-based discounts. Visit our [pricing page](/pricing?loc=blog-cta-header) for details.

Share this postCopy URLShare on Y CombinatorShare on TwitterShare on BlueSkyShare on FacebookShare on LinkedIn### Subscribe to our newsletter
