---
source: blog
url: https://pastila.nl/?00017b4c/03706598582b9fc616403aed35b1b1a4#acdJJpQRUnVGX2vykJKwTg==
topic: how-clickhouse-cloud-uses-aws-graviton-to-boost-performance-and-efficiency
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

This analysis helped us identify potential bottlenecks and set realistic performance targets for the migration. ### Preparing for the Migration: A Calculated Approach [\#](/blog/graviton-boosts-clickhouse-cloud-performance#preparing-for-the-migration-a-calculated-approach) We approached the migration with a focus on thoroughness and risk mitigation. This involved:

- **Compatibility Assessment:** We conducted a comprehensive evaluation to ensure that ClickHouse and all its dependencies were fully compatible with ARM architecture. We had to migrate some instances that were relying on intel only codecs such as `deflate_qpl` and `zstd_qat`.
- **Benchmarking Strategy:** To accurately measure the impact of the migration, we used a [ClickBench “like” benchmark](https://pastila.nl/?000b2ce8/0fd4f785b19f5ddf2f0a7f833ba65d48.html#h0NjIu5roX1bUTxLiJu6cA==) to test performance across both arm64 and amd64\.
- **Risk Analysis and Mitigation:** We proactively identified potential challenges, such as compatibility issues and performance regressions, and developed rollback procedures and contingency plans. We rolled\-out the change across cohorts to further minimize the risk.

## Executing the migration to Graviton [\#](/blog/graviton-boosts-clickhouse-cloud-performance#executing-the-migration-to-graviton)

The migration process involved several key steps:

- **Selecting Graviton Instances:** We carefully chose Graviton instance types based on performance requirements, cost\-performance ratio, and AWS capacity considerations. Due to limitations in the availability of larger Graviton instances, we opted for a mixed instance strategy, combining m7gd and m6gd instances using [AWS Auto Scaling Groups](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/autoscaling/ec2/userguide/auto-scaling-groups.html) (ASG) and our custom ClickHouse autoscaler.
- **Addressing Instance Size and Architecture Jumps:** To ensure smooth autoscaling with mixed instance types, we adjusted memory allocation on m6gd instances to match m7gd, preventing unschedulable pods. We also implemented dynamic pod allocation, directing those under 236Gi to ARM instances using a webhook with node selection changes. Furthermore, we overprovisioned capacity and optimized autoscaler logic to manage the "architecture jump" where pods might initially be scheduled on larger x86 instances and then potentially downsized to smaller ARM instances.
- **Data Migration:** This was not necessary due to compute\-storage separation that is inherent to ClickHouse Cloud.

### Current State (Global, January 20, 2025\) [\#](/blog/graviton-boosts-clickhouse-cloud-performance#current-state-global-january-20-2025)

**Instance Type Distribution:**

- m7gd.16xlarge: 30\.03%
- m7g.4xlarge: 23\.06%
- r7g.xlarge: 15\.02%
- r7gd.2xlarge: 10\.63%
- m5d.24xlarge: 7\.14%
- m6gd.16xlarge: 2\.53%
- m5d.8xlarge: 2\.19%
- m5\.2xlarge: 3\.49%
- r6gd.2xlarge: 1\.12%
- Other (includes r5\.xlarge, r5d.2xlarge, m5\.xlarge, and similar): 4\.79%

**Architecture Distribution**:

- amd64: 17\.32%
- arm64: 82\.68%

*Percentage of ClickHouse server and keeper nodes (yellow \= arm64, blue \= amd64\)*
