---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud/clickpipes/postgres-cdc-connector
topic: timescaledb-to-clickhouse-replication-use-cases-features-and-how-we-built-it
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

from TimescaleDB Hypertables to ClickHouse. This is possible thanks to the native logical replication support in TimescaleDB, a benefit of it being a Postgres extension. The connector supports both compressed and uncompressed Hypertables. Here are its main features:

1. **Blazing fast initial loads** – One of the flagship features of ClickPipes is [**parallel snapshotting**](https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres/parallel_initial_load), which migrates a single large table using parallel threads. This enables moving terabytes of data in just a few hours instead of days. It works for **TimescaleDB hypertables,** as well, although It does not extend to compressed hypertables, which don’t support CTID columns. In such cases, ClickPipes falls back to single\-threaded execution — which remains fast thanks to a range of micro\-optimizations, including cursors and efficient data movement via Avro \+ Zstd, among others.
2. **Support for both uncompressed and compressed hypertables** – The ClickPipes Postgres CDC connector works with both uncompressed and compressed TimescaleDB hypertables, ensuring seamless replication into ClickHouse.
3. **Support for schema changes** \- The ClickPipes Postgres CDC connector also supports automatic replication of [schema changes](https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres/schema-changes) from TimescaleDB including adding and dropping columns.
4. **Comprehensive alerts and metrics** – ClickPipes provides extensive metrics including throughput, inserts/updates/deletes per table, latency, and Postgres\-native metrics such as replication slot size over time and wait events during replication. It also offers advanced [alerts](https://clickhouse.com/blog/postgres-cdc-connector-clickpipes-public-beta#user-facing-alerts) through Slack or email for issues like replication slot growth or replication failures etc. The goal is to deliver deep visibility into the replication process and ensure an enterprise\-ready experience.

## How did we build it? [\#](/blog/timescale-to-clickhouse-clickpipe-cdc#how-did-we-build-it)

### Handling hypertables and chunks in logical replication [\#](/blog/timescale-to-clickhouse-clickpipe-cdc#handling-hypertables-and-chunks-in-logical-replication)

The TimescaleDB extension introduces **hypertables**—automatically partitioned tables designed to optimize query performance for time\-series data. Like Postgres partitioned tables, hypertables don’t store data directly but do it in child tables called **chunks**. This design complicates logical replication, since changes must be tracked at the chunk level rather than the parent hypertable. It also requires handling scenarios where TimescaleDB automatically creates new chunks as data arrives.
