---
source: blog
url: https://upsolver.com
topic: upsolver-high-volume-etl-for-real-time-analytics-with-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

most benefit from ClickHouse when the data is loaded into one of its many specialized table engines. While solutions exist for the challenge of loading large volumes, performing transformations and filtering at scale introduces further challenges for users.

The main capabilities needed for performing ETL at scale with ClickHouse are:

1. **A simple high\-performance architecture** \- An architecture which minimizes the number of systems and components data must traverse
2. **Streaming ingestion and transformations** \- Capabilities for transforming and filtering data reliably and efficiently
3. **Comprehensive monitoring of ingestion jobs** \- Deep monitoring into data and ingestion tasks is required. This also accelerates issue resolution.

Upsolver provides all of these capabilities as we describe in detail below.

## A simple high\-performance architecture [\#](/blog/upsolver-high-volume-etl-for-real-time-analytics#a-simple-high-performance-architecture)

Out\-of\-the\-box, ClickHouse offers numerous [connectors](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations) to popular sources, and [ClickPipes](https://clickhouse.com/cloud/clickpipes) for managed continuous ingestion in ClickHouse Cloud. Some connectors are developed and managed by the ClickHouse team, some by 3rd party vendors, and others by the community.

As mentioned previously, the key to high performance and reliable ETL and CDC is a simple architecture; loading only what’s required, performing efficient filtering and transformations, and providing actionable observability. Therefore, identifying, testing, and implementing the right solution for your use case can be daunting. In particular, as data volumes and throughput increase, it becomes increasingly difficult to ensure data is delivered exactly once in a correct and consistent format.

With Upsolver, ClickHouse Cloud users have the option to directly connect to operational sources, monitor for new events and transform raw event data in\-flight, all while Upsolver automatically scales up and down to match demand.

This makes it possible to simplify your architecture by eliminating Debezium for CDC, queues, and notification scripts for continuous file loading or complex transformations to handle incremental loading, updating, and deleting of rows.

ClickHouse Cloud users are always looking for simple, highly scalable, reliable, and cost\-effective solutions to stream data from multiple sources into ClickHouse whilst performing complex transformations prior to insertion. Upsolver’s [ClickHouse connector](https://docs.upsolver.com/reference/sql-commands/connections/create-connection/clickhouse) does just this, and more.

## Streaming ingestion and transformations [\#](/blog/upsolver-high-volume-etl-for-real-time-analytics#streaming-ingestion-and-transformations)

It’s common practice to create a raw staging zone external to your data warehouse of choice where you can filter, transform, and enrich your data prior to sending it to their preferred destinations.
