---
source: blog
url: https://blog.ldodds.com/2020/01/31/do-data-scientists-spend-80-of-their-time-cleaning-data-turns-out-no/
topic: clickhouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

exploration and preparation [\#](/blog/clickHouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer#data-exploration-and-preparation) ### Data exploration [\#](/blog/clickHouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer#data-exploration) After defining the machine learning problem, goals, and success criteria \- a common next step is to explore the relevant data that will be used for model training and evaluation.

During this step, data is analyzed to understand its characteristics, distributions, and relationships. This process of evaluation and understanding becomes an iterative one, often resulting in a series of ad\-hoc queries being executed across datasets, where query responsiveness is critical (along with other factors such as cost\-efficiency and accuracy). As companies store increasing amounts of data to leverage for machine learning purposes, this problem \- the problem of examining the data you have \- becomes harder.

This is because analytics and evaluation queries often become tediously or prohibitively slow at scale with traditional data systems. Some of the big players [impose significantly increased costs](https://clickhouse.com/comparison/snowflake) to bring down query times, and [disincentivize ad\-hoc evaluation](https://clickhouse.com/comparison/bigquery) by way of charging per query or by number of bytes scanned. Engineers may resort to pulling subsets of data down to their local machines as a compromise for these limitations.

ClickHouse, on the other hand, is a real\-time data warehouse, so users benefit from industry\-leading query speeds for analytical computations. Further, ClickHouse delivers high performance from the start, and doesn’t gate critical query\-accelerating features behind higher pricing tiers. ClickHouse can also query data directly from object storage or data lakes, with support for common formats such as Iceberg, Delta Lake, and Hudi. This means that no matter where your data lives, ClickHouse can serve as a unifying access and computation layer for your machine learning workloads.

ClickHouse also has an extensive suite of pre\-built statistical and aggregation functions that scale over petabytes of data, making it easy to write and maintain simple SQL that executes complex computations. With support for the most granular precision data types and codecs, you don't need to worry about reducing the granularity of your data.

> *“ClickHouse was perfect as Big Data Storage for our ML models” \- [Admixer](https://clickhouse.com/blog/admixer-aggregates-over-1-billion-unique-users-a-day-using-clickhouse)*

### Data preparation and feature extraction [\#](/blog/clickHouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer#data-preparation-and-feature-extraction)
