---
source: blog
url: https://blog.ldodds.com/2020/01/31/do-data-scientists-spend-80-of-their-time-cleaning-data-turns-out-no/
topic: clickhouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

paradigms such as table or schema design. Other functionality, such as converting feature definitions to SQL statements, may provide greater flexibility as part of the application or business logic, rather than existing in an opinionated layer of abstraction.

> *"We aggregate the user’s history in ClickHouse and use it as a data store for training and inference. Even when reading 10s of millions of rows, the performance was very nice and not the bottleneck when training new models." \- [DeepL](https://clickhouse.com/blog/deepls-journey-with-clickhouse)*

## Inference [\#](/blog/clickHouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer#inference)

Model inference is the process of running a trained model to receive an output. When inference is triggered by database actions \- for instance, inserting a new record, or querying records \- the inference step could be managed via bespoke jobs or application code.

On the other hand, it could be managed in the data layer itself. ClickHouse UDFs, or User Defined Functions, give users the ability to invoke a model directly from ClickHouse at insert or query time. This provides the ability to pass incoming data to a model, receive the output, and store these results along with the ingested data automatically \- all without having to spin up other processes or jobs. This also provides a single interface, SQL, by which to manage this step.

> *"After Testing Hadoop and Spark, We Chose ClickHouse" \- [DENIC](https://clickhouse.com/blog/denic-improves-query-times-by-10x-with-clickhouse)*

## Vector store [\#](/blog/clickHouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer#vector-store)

[A vector store](https://clickhouse.com/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p1) is a specific type of database that is optimized for storing and retrieving vectors, typically embeddings of a piece of data (such as text or images) that numerically capture their underlying meaning. Vectors are at the core of today’s generative AI wave and are used in countless applications.

The primary operation in a vector database is a “similarity search” to find the vectors that are “closest” to one another according to a mathematical measure. Vector databases have become popular because they employ specific tactics intended to make this examination \- vector comparisons \- as fast as possible. These techniques generally mean that they approximate the vector comparisons, instead of comparing the input vector to every vector stored.
