---
source: blog
url: https://blog.ldodds.com/2020/01/31/do-data-scientists-spend-80-of-their-time-cleaning-data-turns-out-no/
topic: clickhouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

because they employ specific tactics intended to make this examination \- vector comparisons \- as fast as possible. These techniques generally mean that they approximate the vector comparisons, instead of comparing the input vector to every vector stored.

The issue with this new class of tools is that many general\-purpose databases, including ClickHouse, provide vector support out\-of\-the\-box, and also often have implementations of those approximate approaches built\-in. ClickHouse, in particular, is designed for high\-performance large\-scale analytics \- allowing you to perform [non\-approximate vector comparisons very effectively](https://clickhouse.com/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p2). This means that you can achieve precise results, rather than having to rely on approximations, all without sacrificing speed.

## Observability [\#](/blog/clickHouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer#observability)

Once your machine learning application is live, it will generate data, including logs and tracing data, that offer valuable insights into model behavior, performance, and potential areas for improvement.

SQL\-based observability is another key use case for ClickHouse, where ClickHouse has been found to be [10\-100x more cost effective](https://clickhouse.com/use-cases/logging-and-metrics) than alternatives. In fact, many observability products are themselves built with ClickHouse under\-the\-hood. With best\-in\-class ingestion rates and compression ratios, ClickHouse provides cost\-efficiency and blazing speed to power machine learning observability at any scale.

> *“ClickHouse helps us efficiently and reliably analyze logs across trillions of Internet requests to identify malicious traffic and provide customers with rich analytics.” \- [Cloudflare](https://blog.cloudflare.com/http-analytics-for-6m-requests-per-second-using-clickhouse/)*

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/clickHouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer#conclusion)

With system architectures, it’s all about the tradeoffs. While the proliferation of tools, products, and services in the machine learning data layer may offer specific ease\-of\-use advantages for certain tasks, they also introduce risks, such as increased maintenance costs, architectural complexity, and data duplication expenses.

ClickHouse, a real\-time data warehouse, provides the capacity to collapse many of these tools into a single data system. Rather than having a collection of products and services to help you accomplish each step, ClickHouse provides a central data store that efficiently manages all stages of the machine learning data workflow \- from data exploration and preparation, to feature and vector storage, and finally, observability.

Interested in learning more? [Contact us](https://clickhouse.com/company/contact?loc=blog-cta-footer) today or start your free trial and receive $300 in credits. Visit our [pricing page](https://clickhouse.com/pricing?loc=blog-cta-header) for more details.

## Further reading [\#](/blog/clickHouse-and-the-machine-learning-data-layer#further-reading)
