---
source: blog
url: https://perspective.finos.org/
topic: streaming-real-time-visualizations-with-clickhouse-apache-arrow-and-perspective
ch_version_introduced: '3.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

these technologies work in unison, with the latter providing additional capabilities for advanced cases. When used for stream processing, ClickHouse has the added benefit of efficiently storing all of your data \- allowing historical data to be queried.

In our case, we wanted to attempt streaming the latest rows in ClickHouse to Perspective for rendering. For our example, we'll crudely simulate the requirement to visualize forex trades as they arrive in ClickHouse. This will likely be most useful to a trader, with rows persisted for future historical analysis if required.

## Dataset \- Forex [\#](/blog/streaming-real-time-visualizations-clickhouse-apache-arrow-perpsective#dataset---forex)

For our example, we'll use a forex dataset. Forex trading is the trading of currencies from different countries against each other, where a trader can either buy a base currency with a quote currency from the broker (at an `ask price`) or sell a base currency and receive the quote in return (at the `bid` price). The dataset tracks the price changes of each currency pair over time—what's important is that they change quickly!

For those not familiar with Forex trading, we recommend reading a [short section from this earlier post](https://clickhouse.com/blog/getting-data-into-clickhouse-part-3-s3#a-little-bit-about-forex), where we summarize the concepts.

The full dataset, available in a [public S3 bucket](https://github.com/ClickHouse/perspective-forex?tab=readme-ov-file#dataset), was downloaded from <www.histdata.com> and covers the years 2000 to 2022\. It has 11\.5 billion rows and 66 currency pairs (around 600GB decompressed).

While simple, the schema for this dataset is ideal for our example. Each row represents a tick. Timestamps here are to ms granularity, with columns indicating the base and quote currency and the ask and bid quotes.

```
CREATE TABLE forex
(
   `datetime` DateTime64(3),
   `bid` Decimal(11, 5),
   `ask` Decimal(11, 5),
   `base` LowCardinality(String),
   `quote` LowCardinality(String)
)
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY (datetime, base, quote)

```

> Ticks record when the price of a stock or commodity changes by a predetermined amount or fractional change, i.e., a tick occurs when the price moves up or down by a specific amount or fractional change. A tick in Forex will happen when the bid or quote price changes.
