---
source: blog
url: https://perspective.finos.org/
topic: streaming-real-time-visualizations-with-clickhouse-apache-arrow-and-perspective
ch_version_introduced: '3.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

from ClickHouse over HTTP, and the WebAssembly library running all calculations and UI interactions. ### Streaming latest trades [\#](/blog/streaming-real-time-visualizations-clickhouse-apache-arrow-perpsective#streaming-latest-trades) When creating the table, as shown below, we limit the number of rows retained to restrict the memory overhead.

```
const forex_table = await market_worker.table(rows, { limit: 20000 });

```

For our example, we'll constantly add new rows to this table as new trades become available, relying on Perspective to retain only the latest 20k.

As of the time of writing, ClickHouse doesn't support web sockets or a means to stream changed rows to a client. We, therefore, use a polling approach to fetch the latest rows over HTTP. With Perspective preferring data in Apache Arrow format, we exploit ClickHouse's ability to return data in this format, which has the added benefit of minimizing the data transferred.

Forex ticks occur quickly, with up to 35 per second for the highest volume currency pairs. We want to fetch these as quickly as possible \- ideally every 30\-50ms, to ensure all values are visualized. Our query, therefore, needs to execute quickly, with each connected client issuing 10s of queries per second. Across all connected clients, we'd expect 100s of queries per second \- something ClickHouse, contrary to some misconceptions, is comfortable serving.

Our query simply filters on the timestamp of the event, which is the first entry in our primary key [thus ensuring filtering is optimized](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes). As all clients are issuing requests for approximately the same time period i.e. now, and monotonically increasing, our queries should be cache friendly. Testing showed that while our query executes in less than 10ms even on the full 11 billion row dataset, the HTTP round trip time to a ClickHouse instance is optimistically (same region) 20\-30ms. We therefore just use a simple sliding window from the current time to the previous fetch time. This is continuously executed, retrieving rows as quickly as ClickHouse can serve them.
