---
source: blog
url: https://perspective.finos.org/
topic: streaming-real-time-visualizations-with-clickhouse-apache-arrow-and-perspective
ch_version_introduced: '3.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

they match a specified query. This would remove the need for polling, with the client simply opening an HTTP connection with the query and receiving rows as they arrive. ## A speed test \- with Arrow Stream [\#](/blog/streaming-real-time-visualizations-clickhouse-apache-arrow-perpsective#a-speed-test---with-arrow-stream)

While following the ticks in real time is probably the most useful, we were curious to see how fast Perspective could actually handle the data. For this we wanted to stream the entire dataset to Perspective in ascending date order, again only keeping the last N data points. Our query, in this case, becomes:

```
SELECT concat(base, '.', quote) AS base_quote,
	datetime AS last_update,
	CAST(bid, 'Float32') AS bid,
	CAST(ask, 'Float32') AS ask,
	ask - bid AS spread
FROM forex
ORDER BY datetime ASC
FORMAT ArrowStream
SETTINGS output_format_arrow_compression_method='none'

```

> Note how we've dropped the computation of the change per currency pair. This requires a window function that doesn't exploit the [optimize\_read\_in\_order](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#optimize_read_in_order) and prevents an immediate stream of the results.

For this, you'll notice we don't just use Arrow format. This would require us to download the entire dataset [\>60GB compressed in ClickHouse](https://sql.clickhouse.com?query_id=6B6MXXER1XG8J2QVTY3NMA) and convert it to a table for Perspective. Even in Arrow format, this is a little large for a browser!

Instead we exploit ClickHouse's support for the Arrow Stream format, reading the data in chunks and passing this to perspective. While previously we could do all the work without a dependency, for this we need the [Arrow js lib](https://arrow.apache.org/docs/js/). While this makes consuming Arrow files trivial, to support streaming we need a bit more JS. Our final function which streams the entire dataset a batch at a time is shown below.
