---
source: blog
url: https://clickgems.clickhouse.com/
topic: announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse-and-ruby-central
ch_version_introduced: '252.989'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

REFRESH EVERY 1 WEEK APPEND TO rubygems.rubygems ( `id` UInt32, `name` String, `created_at` DateTime64(6), `updated_at` DateTime64(6), `indexed` LowCardinality(String), `organization_id` LowCardinality(String) ) AS SELECT * FROM url('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/segiddins/rubygems-org-db-dumps/refs/heads/main/tables/rubygems/part_{0..100}.csv', 'CSVWithNames') ``` ``` This view sends the data to the `rubygems.rubygems` table:

```

```
CREATE TABLE rubygems.rubygems
(
	`id` UInt32,
	`name` String,
	`created_at` DateTime64(6),
	`updated_at` DateTime64(6),
	`indexed` LowCardinality(String),
	`organization_id` LowCardinality(String)
)
ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree
ORDER BY (name, id)
```

```

> Users wanting to load this data, and any of the other tables in the weekly data dumps, into their own ClickHouse instance could simply create the above table and run `INSERT INTO SELECT * FROM url('https://raw.githubusercontent.com/segiddins/rubygems-org-db-dumps/refs/heads/main/tables/rubygems/part_{0..100}.csv', 'CSVWithNames')`. For other table schemas, check out this [sql.clickhouse.com query](https://sql.clickhouse.com/?query=U0hPVyBDUkVBVEUgVEFCTEUgcnVieWdlbXMudmVyc2lvbnM).

There are a few important notes with respect to this view and sorting key.

The view uses the clause `APPEND`. This means all rows are **appended** to the target table `rubygems.rubygems` vs. the default strategy of replacement.

The above policy means the Ruby Gems data will contain duplicates. To address this, we use a ReplacingMergeTree, which de\-duplicates data based on unique values of the ordering key (`name` and `id` in the above case \- these uniquely identify a package). This deduplication process is eventual with duplicates removed through a background merge process.

To address this we can either use the `FINAL` keyword when querying these tables, which removes any outstanding duplicates at query time, or ensure we aggregate by the ordering keys. The overhead here is expected to be negligible as the volume of data is low \~ millions.

Note that these tables are all relatively small (for ClickHouse), with them predominantly providing metadata. As we demonstrate below, this can be useful for joining the data with other datasets:

```

```
SELECT
	name,
	formatReadableQuantity(total_rows) AS total_rows,
	formatReadableSize(total_bytes_uncompressed) AS total_size
FROM system.tables
WHERE (database = 'rubygems') AND (engine LIKE '%ReplacingMergeTree')
```

```

## Materialized views [\#](/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse#materialized-views)

Similar to ClickPy we wanted to create incremental materialized views to accelerate common queries for users.

In its simplest form, an incremental materialized view is simply a query that triggers when an insert is made to a table.

Key to this is the idea that Materialized views don't hold any data themselves. They simply execute a query on the inserted rows and send the results to another "target table" for storage.
