---
source: blog
url: https://clickgems.clickhouse.com/
topic: announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse-and-ruby-central
ch_version_introduced: '252.989'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

is made to a table. Key to this is the idea that Materialized views don't hold any data themselves. They simply execute a query on the inserted rows and send the results to another "target table" for storage.

Importantly, the query that runs can aggregate the rows into a smaller result set, allowing queries to run faster on the target table. This approach effectively moves work from **query time to insert time**.

As an example, we can recreate our daily aggregate downloads using the data from our raw download logs.

> The main motivation here is that the aggregate logs are actually estimates and updated weekly, whereas the results from our materialized view will be precise and updated hourly. This also represents a simple example :)

```

```
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW rubygems.downloads_per_day_mv TO rubygems.downloads_per_day
AS SELECT
	toDate(timestamp) AS date,
	gem,
	count() AS count
FROM rubygems.downloads
GROUP BY
	date,
	gem
```

```

This view executes the aggregation below on blocks of data as they are inserted into the `downloads` table.

```

```
SELECT
	toDate(timestamp) AS date,
	gem,
	count() AS count
FROM rubygems.downloads
GROUP BY
	date,
	gem
```

```

The result is sent to the "target table" `rubygems.downloads_per_day`. This, in turn, has a special engine configuration:

```

```
CREATE TABLE rubygems.downloads_per_day
(
	`date` Date,
	`gem` String,
	`count` UInt64
)
ENGINE = SummingMergeTree
ORDER BY (gem, date)
```

```

The [SummingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/summingmergetree) replaces all the rows with the same `ORDER BY` key (gem and date in this case) with one row which contains summarized values for the columns with the numeric data type. Rows with the same project value will be asynchronously merged, and the count will be summed \- hence "Summing." This summing behavior means it can be incrementally updated as new data arrives in the `downloads` table.

To show how this is useful, suppose we wished to look at the downloads per day for the bundler gem. Using the original `downloads` table:

```

```
SELECT toDate(timestamp) as date, count() AS count
FROM rubygems.downloads WHERE gem = 'bundler'
GROUP BY gem, date ORDER BY date ASC
```

```

For most of you, this query probably took around 7\-10s to run. Contrast with the equivalent query using the materialized view table `dowloads_per_day`:
