---
source: blog
url: https://clickgems.clickhouse.com/
topic: announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse-and-ruby-central
ch_version_introduced: '252.989'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

rubygems.downloads WHERE gem = 'bundler' GROUP BY gem, date ORDER BY date ASC ``` ``` For most of you, this query probably took around 7\-10s to run. Contrast with the equivalent query using the materialized view table `dowloads_per_day`:

```

```
SELECT date, sum(count) AS count
FROM rubygems.downloads_per_day WHERE gem = 'bundler'
GROUP BY gem, date ORDER BY date ASC
```

```

Just a little bit faster I'm sure! Welcome to the power of incremental materialized views \- we’ve shifted the computation from query time to insert time.

We maintain a few other materialized views, we use in the queries below but plan to extend these over time and on request.

## Example queries [\#](/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse#example-queries)

To get our users started we’ve assembled some example queries. These largely cover the queries used in ClickPy. Feel free to try any of the queries below or head over to [sql.clickhouse.com](https://sql.clickhouse.com/?query_id=HVMKR3JXFT4DA8NMAPGXKM&chart=eyJ0eXBlIjoibGluZSIsImNvbmZpZyI6eyJ0aXRsZSI6IkdlbSBkb3dubG9hZHMgb3ZlciB0aW1lIiwieGF4aXMiOiJkYXRlIiwieWF4aXMiOiJ0b3RhbF9kb3dubG9hZHMifX0) for the full catalog.

### Most downloaded gems [\#](/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse#most-downloaded-gems)

Using our above materialized view:

```

```
SELECT
   gem,
   sum(count) AS total_downloads
FROM rubygems.downloads_per_day
GROUP BY gem
ORDER BY total_downloads DESC
LIMIT 5
```

```

### Emerging gems [\#](/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse#emerging-gems)

This query uses the materialized view [`gems_downloads_max_min`](https://sql.clickhouse.com/?query=U0hPVyBDUkVBVEUgVEFCTEUgcnVieWdlbXMuZ2Vtc19kb3dubG9hZHNfbWF4X21pbg) which mains the min and max date that a gem was downloaded.

```

```
WITH (
   SELECT max(max_date)
   FROM rubygems.gems_downloads_max_min
) AS max_date
SELECT
   gem,
   sum(count) AS c
FROM rubygems.downloads_per_day
WHERE gem IN (
   SELECT name
   FROM rubygems.gems_downloads_max_min
   GROUP BY name
   HAVING min(min_date) >= (max_date - toIntervalMonth(3))
)
GROUP BY gem
ORDER BY c DESC
LIMIT 7
```

```

### Downloads over time for a gem [\#](/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse#downloads-over-time-for-a-gem)

If day granularity is sufficient we can use the `downloads_per_day` view. For the bundler gem:

```

```
SELECT
	date,
	sum(count) AS total_downloads
FROM rubygems.downloads_per_day
WHERE (gem = 'bundler')
GROUP BY date
ORDER BY date ASC
```

```

For more granular analysis the full fidelity download events can be used (we recommend filtering by date ranges in this case).

```

```
SELECT 
  toStartOfHour(timestamp) as hour,
  count() as total_downloads
FROM rubygems.downloads
WHERE (gem = 'bundler') AND timestamp > now() - INTERVAL 2 DAYS
GROUP BY hour
ORDER BY hour ASC
```

```

### Downloads by Ruby version over time [\#](/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse#downloads-by-ruby-version-over-time)

For the bundler gem:
