---
source: blog
url: https://clickgems.clickhouse.com/
topic: announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse-and-ruby-central
ch_version_introduced: '252.989'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

count() as total_downloads FROM rubygems.downloads WHERE (gem = 'bundler') AND timestamp > now() - INTERVAL 2 DAYS GROUP BY hour ORDER BY hour ASC ``` ``` ### Downloads by Ruby version over time [\#](/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse#downloads-by-ruby-version-over-time) For the bundler gem:

```

```
--Daily gem downloads by version over time. NOTE - We recommended applying a time range (weeks max) to avoid quota limits.
WITH top_versions AS
	(
    	SELECT user_agent.ruby
    	FROM rubygems.downloads
    	WHERE (timestamp BETWEEN '2025-01-01' AND '2025-04-03') AND (gem = 'bundler')
    	GROUP BY user_agent.ruby
    	ORDER BY count() DESC
    	LIMIT 10
	)
SELECT
	user_agent.ruby AS ruby_version,
	toStartOfHour(timestamp) AS hour,
	count() AS downloads
FROM rubygems.downloads
WHERE (timestamp BETWEEN '2025-01-01' AND '2025-04-03') AND (gem = 'bundler') AND user_agent.ruby IN top_versions
GROUP BY
	hour,
	ruby_version
ORDER BY
	hour DESC,
	ruby_version ASC
```

```

> In the future we’ll provide materialized views to accelerate this query.

### Downloads by system over time [\#](/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse#downloads-by-system-over-time)

For the bundler gem:

```

```
WITH systems AS
	(
    	SELECT user_agent.platform.os
    	FROM rubygems.downloads
    	WHERE (timestamp BETWEEN '2025-01-01' AND '2025-04-03')AND (gem = 'bundler') AND (user_agent.platform.os NOT IN ('', 'unknown'))
    	GROUP BY user_agent.platform.os
    	ORDER BY count() DESC
    	LIMIT 5
	)
SELECT
	user_agent.platform.os AS name,
	toStartOfHour(timestamp) AS hour,
	count() AS total_downloads
FROM rubygems.downloads
WHERE (timestamp BETWEEN '2025-01-01' AND '2025-04-03') AND (gem = 'bundler') AND (user_agent.platform.os IN (systems))
GROUP BY
	name,
	hour
ORDER BY
	hour ASC,
	name DESC
```

```

> In the future we’ll provide materialized views to accelerate this query.

### Downloads for latest Gem version (using dictionaries) [\#](/blog/announcing-ruby-gem-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse#downloads-for-latest-gem-version-using-dictionaries)

Some queries require us to use more than 1 table. The weekly metadata tables are particularly useful for more complex queries.

We also provide a number of dictionaries for users to use to accelerate queries. These in\-memory structures allow key\-value lookups. For example, the following two dictionaries allow the lookup of a gem's id but its name and vice versa:

```

```
CREATE DICTIONARY rubygems.name_to_id
(
	`name` String,
	`id` UInt64
)
PRIMARY KEY name
SOURCE(CLICKHOUSE(QUERY 'SELECT name, id FROM rubygems.rubygems'))
LIFETIME(MIN 86400 MAX 90000)
LAYOUT(COMPLEX_KEY_HASHED())

CREATE DICTIONARY rubygems.id_to_name
(
	`id` UInt64,
	`name` String
)
PRIMARY KEY id
SOURCE(CLICKHOUSE(QUERY 'SELECT id, name FROM rubygems.rubygems'))
LIFETIME(MIN 86400 MAX 90000)
LAYOUT(FLAT())
```

```

> To learn more about dictionaries we recommend the ["Dictionary" docs guide](https://clickhouse.com/docs/dictionary)

For example, to lookup the bundler gems id:

```

```
SELECT dictGet(rubygems.name_to_id, 'id', 'bundler') AS gem_id
```

```
