---
source: blog
url: https://adsb.exposed/?zoom=12&lat=40.7168&lng=285.9893&query=e18e8c8d6a1db73c63953798ad8919a9
topic: announcing-adsb-exposed-interactive-visualization-and-analytics-on-ads-b-flight-data-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '40.7168'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

restrictions on collecting, using, or redistributing this data. Most passenger airplanes are obligated to broadcast this data, and even gliders, drones, and airport ground vehicles in certain countries. Military and private light aircraft might or may not broadcast.

It is possible to collect this data out of thin air using your own radio receiver (e.g., in the form of SDR), although your receiver will see the data only in a specific range of your location. There are platforms for sharing and exchange of this data. Some platforms invite participants to share the data but restrict its redistribution by providing commercial access. While the source data, broadcast by airplanes, is essentially public domain, the companies may produce and license derivative works from this data.

We use the data from two sources: [ADSB.lol](https://www.adsb.lol/) (complete historical data is provided without restrictions: 30 to 50 million records per day, available since 2023 under the [Open Database License](https://github.com/adsblol/globe_history_2024/blob/main/LICENSE-ODbL.txt)) and [ADSB\-Exchange](https://www.adsbexchange.com/products/historical-data/) (only provides samples of data from the first day of each month: around 1\.2 billion records per day with better coverage).

> Another promising data source, [airplanes.live](https://airplanes.live/), has been brought to our attention. The author offered to provide historical and real\-time data for non\-commercial usage. It has great coverage and data quality, and we are going to include it in the following days.

## Implementation Details [\#](/blog/interactive-visualization-analytics-adsb-flight-data-with-clickhouse#implementation-details)

The website is implemented as a single HTML page. It does not use JavaScript frameworks, and the source code is not minified, so it is easy to read.

### Rendering the Map [\#](/blog/interactive-visualization-analytics-adsb-flight-data-with-clickhouse#rendering-the-map)

The [Leaflet](https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet/) library is used to display the map in two layers. The background layer uses tiles from OpenStreetMap to create a typical geographic map. The main layer overlays the visualization on top of the background map.

The visualization layer uses a `GridLayer` with a custom callback function, `createTile` which generates Canvas elements on the fly:

```
L.GridLayer.ClickHouse = L.GridLayer.extend({
	createTile: function(coords, done) {
    	let tile = L.DomUtil.create('canvas', 'leaflet-tile');
    	tile.width = 1024;
    	tile.height = 1024;
    	render(this.options.table, this.options.priority, coords, tile).then(err => done(err, tile));
    	return tile;
	}
});

const layer_options = {
	tileSize: 1024,
	minZoom: 2,
	maxZoom: 19,
	minNativeZoom: 2,
	maxNativeZoom: 16,
	attribution: '(c) Alexey Milovidov, ClickHouse, Inc. (data: adsb.lol, adsbexchange.com)'
};

```

Each tile has a high resolution of 1024x1024 size to lower the number of requests to the database.
