---
source: blog
url: https://www.bonree.com/s/one
topic: bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

data volumes and types of data continuously expanded, the pressure on ZooKeeper from the ClickHouse cluster increased. For instance, in scenarios requiring high real\-time performance for alarm data storage and queries, the following issues were encountered with ZooKeeper:

1. **Limited capacity**: In our cloud deployment, with Keeper configured with 4C8G (4 CPU cores and 8 GB RAM per node) resources, a single ZooKeeper cluster (3 nodes) could support up to 5 shards (16 CPU cores and 32 GB RAM per shard node, 2 replicas per shard), with approximately 20,000 parts per shard, totaling around 100,000 parts. As data volumes and the number of tables increased, the cluster size rapidly expanded. Therefore, every time the cluster was expanded by 5 shards, we had to add another ZooKeeper cluster, leading to significant maintenance costs.
2. **Performance bottleneck**: Initially, with ClickHouse storing 1TB of data and a total of fewer than 12,000 parts, data could be inserted successfully within milliseconds. However, as the data volume increased and the number of parts reached 20,000, the response time for data insertion became significantly slower, taking tens of seconds to insert successfully. This resulted in issues where data could not be queried timely, affecting user experience.
3. **High resource usage**: ZooKeeper consumed a lot of memory and I/O resources, and costs increased with data volume growth.

> In a comparative test within the same observability data environment, ZooKeeper's memory consumption was 4\.5 times higher, and I/O usage was 8 times higher than ClickHouse Keeper's.

4. **Stability issues**: Developed in Java, ZooKeeper could experience frequent full GC cycles, leading to service interruptions and performance fluctuations in ClickHouse. Additionally, issues like `zxid overflow` occurred. When ClickHouse executed parts synchronization among replicas in the background, it had to register with ZooKeeper first. Poor ZooKeeper performance could lead to increased background threads, resulting in data synchronization delays among replicas. In our cloud platform, using ZooKeeper for metadata storage resulted in a delay queue of over 10,000 parts, seriously affecting the accuracy of business queries.

Based on the above pain points and the characteristics of write\-intensive data analysis scenarios, we chose ClickHouse Keeper, which performed better as a ZooKeeper replacement. Key considerations included:
