---
source: blog
url: https://www.bonree.com/s/one
topic: bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

over 10,000 parts, seriously affecting the accuracy of business queries. Based on the above pain points and the characteristics of write\-intensive data analysis scenarios, we chose ClickHouse Keeper, which performed better as a ZooKeeper replacement. Key considerations included:

1. **Compatibility**: ClickHouse Keeper is compatible with ZooKeeper client protocols. Any standard ZooKeeper client can interact with ClickHouse Keeper, supporting the use of ClickHouse client commands. This means no server\-side modifications are needed to connect to ClickHouse Keeper.
2. **Historical data migration**: We could use the [clickHouse\-keeper\-converter](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/sre/keeper/clickhouse-keeper#migration-from-zookeeper) tool to convert historical data from ZooKeeper and import the converted snapshot files into the ClickHouse Keeper cluster. The conversion efficiency was controlled by choosing five\-minute blocks for millions of paths, reducing the overall cluster stop\-write time and minimizing the impact on online products.
3. **Service stability**: Written in C\+\+, ClickHouse\-Keeper enhances overall service stability by fundamentally solving the Full GC issue caused by ZooKeeper and improving service performance through server parameter adjustments.
4. **Resource and performance**: Compressed storage of metadata reduces resource usage. It also uses CPU, memory, and disk I/O more efficiently. By using resources more efficiently, ClickHouse Keeper's performance is superior.

## Solution evolution [\#](/blog/bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs#solution-evolution)

### Original solution based on ZooKeeper [\#](/blog/bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs#original-solution-based-on-zookeeper)

As our observability platform business expanded, the platform’s data was divided into critical and general categories. Prioritized performance and query requirements for critical data required physical resource isolation. Logical resource isolation for a large cluster was cumbersome because onboarding new category data required reallocation and resource adjustment. Physically isolating different resources was more efficient, allowing operations to focus only on resource support for one specific area.

Initially, we used multiple ClickHouse Clusters coordinated through ZooKeeper to handle the complexity and different SLAs of diverse data categories. However, as ClickHouse expanded, the pressure on ZooKeeper also increased, leading to delays and task accumulation. To resolve this, we used the official ClickHouse multi\-ZooKeeper architecture: parts metadata for each group of 5 shards is stored in a dedicated ZooKeeper cluster (consisting of 3 nodes each) per group; table metadata is stored centrally in another ZooKeeper cluster (consisting of 3 nodes) for all groups:
