---
source: blog
url: https://www.bonree.com/s/one
topic: bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

saving this information for comparison after migration, ensuring data consistency before and after the migration. 2. Modifying the `clickHouse-keeper-converter` source code to support merging snapshots from multiple ZooKeeper node sets into one ClickHouse Keeper node set. For example:

```
// Deserialize all snapshot files in a loop
for (const auto &item : existing_snapshots) {
  deserializeKeeperStorageFromSnapshot(storage item.second log);
}

```

```
// Modify numChildren property acquisition method to avoid using incremental IDs
storage.container.updateValue(parent_path [path = itr.key] (KeeperStorage::Node &value) {
  value.addChild(getBaseName(path));
  value.stat.numChildren = static_cast<int32_t>(value.getChildren().size());
});

```

```
// File output stream when creating the conversion snapshot file, for quick reading by the subsequent diff tool
int flags = (O_APPEND | O_CREAT | O_WRONLY);
std::unique_ptr<WriteBufferFromFile> out = std::make_unique<WriteBufferFromFile>("pathLog", DBMS_DEFAULT_BUFFER_SIZE, flags);

```

### Encrypted authentication [\#](/blog/bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs#encrypted-authentication)

Bonree has many private B2B (business\-to\-business) customers, some of whom historically required encrypted authentication for ZooKeeper content while others did not, resulting in varying situations. All scenarios had to be considered to ensure a smooth migration. ZooKeeper can perform ACL (Access Control List) encryption. Here’s how to handle the conversion of already encrypted ZooKeeper clusters, partially encrypted ZooKeeper clusters, and non\-encrypted ZooKeeper clusters based on different strategies:

- **Fully encrypted or fully unencrypted:** If everything is encrypted and the encryption information is consistent, meaning that each node in the ZooKeeper cluster uses the same ACL strategy and the content of the strategy is the same, and ClickHouse Keeper's ACL is compatible with ZooKeeper's ACL, we can retain the original encryption information and directly perform the conversion. The ClickHouse configuration file does not need modification. If there is no encryption at all, i.e., ClickHouse has not configured ACL information when using ZooKeeper, this scenario can also be directly converted, and the ClickHouse configuration file does not need modification either.
- **Partially encrypted or inconsistent encryption information:** In this case, we need to remove the original encryption information and modify the ClickHouse configuration file to ensure the encryption method is consistent. The steps to remove ZooKeeper encryption are as follows:
