---
source: blog
url: https://www.bonree.com/s/one
topic: bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

encrypted or inconsistent encryption information:** In this case, we need to remove the original encryption information and modify the ClickHouse configuration file to ensure the encryption method is consistent. The steps to remove ZooKeeper encryption are as follows:

	1. Add a super administrator account. When starting the ZooKeeper cluster, add the following in the JAVA startup command: `Dzookeeper.DigestAuthenticationProvider.superDigest=zookeeper:{XXXXXX}`
	2. Restart the ZooKeeper cluster.
	3. Use the ZooKeeper client to enter the cluster: `zkCli.sh -server ${zookeeper_cluster_address, format as ip1:port,ip2:port}`
	4. Log in with the super administrator account: `addauth digest zookeeper:#{XXXXXX}`
	5. Execute the command to remove node authentication (the more nodes under the target path, the longer it will take): `setAcl -R ${zookeeper_znode_path} world:anyone:cdrwa`
	6. Remove the super administrator account added in step (1\) and restart the ZooKeeper cluster.
	7. After the migration, decide whether you need to enable encryption again in ClickHouse\-Keeper.

## Verification process [\#](/blog/bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs#verification-process)

We faced three significant challenges for the verification process that had to be addressed to ensure a successful migration:

1. **Limitations in data retrieval**: It is currently impossible to retrieve all existing paths stored in ZooKeeper with a single command.
2. **Cluster consolidation**: We merged multiple ZooKeeper clusters into a single ClickHouse Keeper cluster.
3. **Data comparison accuracy and speed**: During the automated migration process, it is critical to perform data comparison both quickly and accurately. Failure to do so could exponentially increase the migration duration, heightening the risk of misjudgment and potential migration failure.

To quickly retrieve and compare paths, we implemented the following strategies:

1. When converting ZooKeeper snapshots to ClickHouse Keeper snapshots, we print all converted paths to a pathlog target file. During comparison, we sample the content of this file, converting ZooKeeper queries into file reads. Originally, reading 9 million ZooKeeper paths took about 9 hours, but with optimization, it now takes only a few seconds (e.g. by loading pathlog into memory for reading).
2. We compare znode paths sequentially based on the migration relationship. We ensure that tasks like merges are shut down before comparison, further ensuring no temporary directories appear, thereby guaranteeing the validity of the comparison. The comparison is divided into two scenarios:
