---
source: blog
url: https://www.bonree.com/s/one
topic: bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

paths sequentially based on the migration relationship. We ensure that tasks like merges are shut down before comparison, further ensuring no temporary directories appear, thereby guaranteeing the validity of the comparison. The comparison is divided into two scenarios:

	1. **Differentiated paths:** These paths exist only under the `/clickhouse/tables` path and are present in only one ZooKeeper cluster. If they pass comparison verification, the validation is successful. Conversely, if they do not exist in multiple ZooKeeper clusters or exist in two or more clusters, the validation fails. This ensures the correctness of differentiated path data.
	2. **Common paths:** The contents of the paths are the same in all ZooKeeper clusters, passing comparison verification. This ensures the correctness of common path data.

## **Tuning** [\#](/blog/bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs#tuning)

We applied the following parameter tuning for ClickHouse Keeper:

- **max\_requests\_batch\_size:** This indicates the maximum size of requests batched before sending to raft. The larger the cluster, the more this value should be adjusted upward to facilitate batching and performance improvement. In our scenario, we set the value to 10,000\.
- **force\_sync:** Indicates whether requests are synchronously written to the log. Optimized setting is false.
- **compress\_logs:** Indicates whether logs are compressed. Log file size affects startup speed and disk usage. Optimized setting is true.
- **compress\_snapshots\_with\_zstd\_format:** Indicates whether snapshots are compressed. Log file size affects startup speed and disk usage. Optimized setting is true.

## **Results** [\#](/blog/bonree-replaces-zookeeper-with-clickhouse-keeper-for-drastically-improved-performance-and-reduced-costs#results)

After replacing ZooKeeper with ClickHouse Keeper, the resource savings and write latency improvements were significant, resolving the performance bottlenecks of storing metadata in ZooKeeper, while also lowering the maintenance barrier.

Previously, the IO bottleneck in ZooKeeper would directly impact the overall write latency of ClickHouse storage. In our cloud platform with trillions of ingested events, migrating from ZooKeeper to ClickHouse Keeper resulted in over 75% savings in CPU and memory usage.

After switching to ClickHouse Keeper, IO overhead decreased by 8 times, and performance improved nearly 8 times.

> Originally, we did not anticipate that ClickHouse itself would be so powerful, and ClickHouse\-Keeper's performance is equally impressive!
