---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/what-is-real-time-analytics
topic: clickhouse-cloud-is-now-generally-available-on-microsoft-azure
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

from their data in new ways.” Public Beta for ClickHouse Cloud on Azure was [announced](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-is-now-on-azure-in-public-beta) at [Microsoft Build](https://build.microsoft.com/en-US/sessions/ce3158d0-654b-4848-90d1-ac2ac7dc0e0d?source=sessions) in May 2024 and is seeing strong adoption across organizations looking to build real\-time analytical applications on top of Azure.

"We are thrilled about the launch of ClickHouse Cloud on Microsoft Azure," said Julian LaNeve, Chief Technology Officer at Astronomer. "Our data platform handles massive volumes of real\-time events, and ClickHouse has been instrumental in delivering lightning\-fast analytics. With ClickHouse Cloud on Azure, we can deploy and scale effortlessly on Azure's reliable, secure, and scalable infrastructure."

“At BaxEnergy, our mission is to make renewable energy easier, more efficient, affordable, and secure," said Marco Cecconi, Head of R\&D of BaxEnergy. “ClickHouse Cloud on Microsoft Azure supports us in conducting advanced analysis on large volumes of data from various renewable energy sources. By generating actionable insights, creating detailed reports, and developing custom dashboards, we empower our customers to achieve better performance and scale their operations effectively. We have been pleasantly surprised by the remarkable speed and flexibility of ClickHouse, and their team has provided us with exceptional dedicated support.”

Some additional benefits of using ClickHouse Cloud on Azure include:

**Simplicity.** With ClickHouse Cloud, you create your service with a single click. You don't have to worry about the operational complexity of server configurations and cluster topology, shards and replicas, managing backups and restores, durability and fault tolerance, monitoring, or alerts. It just works.

**Speed and Scale.** ClickHouse Cloud is designed to handle real\-time analytics on top of petabyte\-scale datasets. There is no need for manual sharding or data movement, as it scales automatically. Our multi\-layer cache and other cloud\-native performance optimizations ensure impressive query performance for a wide variety of workloads.

**Security and Reliability.** ClickHouse Cloud has security best practices built in by default. It is configured with network isolation and traffic encryption. ClickHouse builds are additionally hardened, tested, and validated for ClickHouse Cloud. The service is automatically replicated across multiple availability zones for high availability.

**Efficiency.** ClickHouse Cloud adapts itself to the changing nature of your workloads, scaling up and down as needed. ClickHouse Cloud also takes advantage of shared object storage as its primary storage, while separating compute resources. This dramatically increases flexibility and resource efficiency, delivering industry's best price/performance ratio.
