---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/log-monitoring
topic: how-trip-com-migrated-from-elasticsearch-and-built-a-50pb-logging-solution-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

records detailed context for each query, which is used for unified governance of cluster queries, imposing limitations on QPS, large table scans and query execution time to improve system stability. ## What’s the future of our platform? [\#](/blog/how-trip.com-migrated-from-elasticsearch-and-built-a-50pb-logging-solution-with-clickhouse#whats-the-future-of-our-platform)

Our platform has been proven at a 40PB\+ scale, but much more still needs to be improved. We want to be more dynamically scalable in order to absorb our high peak usage more gracefully around periods such as vacations. In order to handle this growth, we started exploring ClickHouse Enterprise Service (via Alibaba Cloud), which introduced the [SharedMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/reference/shared-merge-tree) table engine. This provides a native separation of storage and compute. With this new architecture, we can offer almost unlimited storage to support more logging use cases within trip.com.

> The ClickHouse Enterprise Service offered in Alibaba Cloud is the same version of ClickHouse used by ClickHouse Cloud.

### Testing the ClickHouse Enterprise Service on AliCloud [\#](/blog/how-trip.com-migrated-from-elasticsearch-and-built-a-50pb-logging-solution-with-clickhouse#testing-the-clickhouse-enterprise-service-on-alicloud)

To test the ClickHouse Enterprise Service, we started by doing a dual write of our data, inserting it into both our existing deployment and a new service leveraging SharedMergeTree. To simulate a realistic workload, we:

- Loaded 3TB of data into both clusters, followed by a continuous insertion load.
- Collected a variety of query templates to use as a testing set.
- Using a script, we built queries that will query random 1hr time intervals with specific values guaranteeing a non\-empty result set.

When it comes to the infrastructure used:

- 3 nodes of 32 CPU with 128 GiB of memory using object storage for the ClickHouse enterprise offering (with SMT)
- 2 nodes of 40 CPU with 176 GiB of memory with HDD for the community edition (Open\-Source)

To execute our query workload, we used the [`clickhouse-benchmark`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/utilities/clickhouse-benchmark) tool (available with ClickHouse) for both services.

1. Both the enterprise and community options are configured to use the filesystem cache as we want to reproduce similar conditions to the one we might have in production (we should expect a lower cache hit rate in production, given the data volume would be much larger)
2. We will run the first test with a concurrency of 2, and each query will be executed in 3 different rounds.
