---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/log-monitoring
topic: how-trip-com-migrated-from-elasticsearch-and-built-a-50pb-logging-solution-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

expect a lower cache hit rate in production, given the data volume would be much larger) 2. We will run the first test with a concurrency of 2, and each query will be executed in 3 different rounds.

|  | Testing Round | P50 | P90 | P99 | P9999 | Avg |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Alicloud Enterprise Edition | 1st | 0\.26 | 0\.62 | 7\.2 | 22\.99 | 0\.67 |
|  | 2nd | 0\.24 | 0\.46 | 4\.4 | 20\.61 | 0\.52 |
|  | 3rd | 0\.24 | 0\.48 | 16\.75 | 21\.71 | 0\.70 |
|  | Avg | 0\.24640\.3% | 0\.5222\.2% | 7\.0571\.4% | 21\.7790\.3 | 0\.6351\.6% |
| Alicloud Community Edition | 1st | 0\.63 | 3\.4 | 11\.06 | 29\.50 | 1\.39 |
|  | 2nd | 0\.64 | 1\.92 | 9\.35 | 23\.50 | 1\.20 |
|  | 3rd | 0\.58 | 1\.60 | 9\.23 | 19\.3 | 1\.07 |
|  | Avg | 0\.61100% | 2\.31100% | 9\.88100% | 24\.1100% | 1\.07100% |


The results from the ClickHouse Enterprise Service are in yellow with the results of the Alicloud community edition in red. The performance percentage relative to the community edition is in green (the lower, the better).

Now, as we increase the concurrency, the community edition quickly stops being able to handle the workload and starts returning errors. This effectively means the enterprise edition is able to effectively process three times as many concurrent queries.

Although ClickHouse’s Enterprise Service uses object storage as its means of storing data, it still performs better \- particularly with respect to highly concurrent workloads. We believe this seamless in\-place upgrade could remove a large operational burden for us.

As a result of this test, we decided to start migrating our business metrics to the enterprise service. This contains information about payment completion rates, order statistics, etc and we recommend all community users give the enterprise service a shot!

[Get started](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog) with ClickHouse Cloud today and receive $300 in credits. At the end of your 30\-day trial, continue with a pay\-as\-you\-go plan, or [contact us](/company/contact?loc=blog-cta-footer) to learn more about our volume\-based discounts. Visit our [pricing page](/pricing?loc=blog-cta-header) for details.
