---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-raises-350-million-series-c-to-power-analytics-for-ai-era
topic: that-s-a-wrap-highlights-from-open-house-our-first-user-conference
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

100TB\+ of data per month and supporting hundreds of customers \- including Ashby, Seemplicity, and AutoNation \- this connector delivers 10x faster syncs, latency as low as a few seconds, automatic schema changes, fully secure connectivity, and more.

Read the full blog post about this [Postgres CDC GA announcement](https://clickhouse.com/blog/postgres-cdc-connector-clickpipes-ga) and try it out yourself with our [quick\-start guide](https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres).

### Lightweight Updates [\#](/blog/highlights-from-open-house-our-first-user-conference#lightweight-updates)

Even for OLAP workloads, data mutability is increasingly a key requirement. ClickHouse already supports updates and deletes, but the “traditional” mutations\-based method requires ClickHouse to rewrite entire data parts, even for small changes, and is therefore both resource\-intensive and introduces unpredictable latency.

To address these issues, we’re excited to introduce a new “lightweight” approach for updates and deletes \- the feature is aptly called Lightweight Updates. This method represents updates as "patches" that contain only the changed rows and columns, along with system columns for location, avoiding the need to rewrite entire data parts. These patches are applied during SELECT queries and eventually merge into normal data parts in the background, making updates much faster and reducing the latency variability.

Our benchmarking indicates that these new Lightweight Updates improve performance by several orders of magnitude, depending on data volume, distribution between parts, and other factors, while only nominally affecting SELECT query performance.

Lightweight Updates will be available in ClickHouse Cloud in mid\-July and in open source version 25\.7\+, allowing for frequent updates and deletes with minimal performance impact.

Interested in learning more about these and other updates? Sign up for our [newsletter](https://discover.clickhouse.com/newsletter.html) and release webinars here.

## ClickStack: ClickHouse for Observability [\#](/blog/highlights-from-open-house-our-first-user-conference#clickstack-clickhouse-for-observability)

At Open House, we announced ClickStack, a new open\-source observability stack built on ClickHouse. ClickStack delivers a complete, out\-of\-the\-box experience for logs, metrics, and traces \- powered by the performance and efficiency of ClickHouse, but designed as a full observability stack that’s open, accessible, and ready for everyone.
