---
source: blog
url: http://www.getlago.com
topic: a-million-events-per-second-how-lago-scales-usage-based-billing-with-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

company's revenue, it needs to be transparent, extensible, and enable maximum privacy, compliance, and security. Lago was designed so developers could inspect the code, adapt it to their own systems, and avoid being trapped in rigid, black\-box workflows.

It was also a reaction to what they saw in the market. In their words: "Many other billing vendors lock their customers in or offer limited flexibility, leading to the customer having to internally build much of the billing logic." At scale, that model starts to crack. As Lago's Head of Growth, Lisa Bardet, puts it, "Companies have to build a lot of workarounds when they reach a certain size and complexity. That's typically when they come knocking at our door."

Lago was built for complex billing from day one. This means it supports usage\-based pricing, subscriptions, credits, and almost any other pricing model (or hybrids of them). That decision has only become more relevant as AI\-driven products and API\-first businesses reshape how software is sold. Every request, every token, every feature used becomes a billable event. As Lisa says, "That's why it's so important to be able to scale the number of events we ingest, so we can provide the most accurate picture of our customers' margins at any point in time."

## What led Lago to ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/lago#what-led-lago-to-clickhouse-cloud)

As Lago's platform has matured, so has the profile of the companies it serves. What started as a solution for fast\-growing startups is increasingly being adopted by larger, more complex enterprises (like PayPal, CoreWeave, and Mistral, among others) with demanding requirements. With that shift upmarket comes an explosion in data volume. At a certain point, billing stops being an application problem and starts becoming a data problem.

Supporting that new reality meant rethinking Lago's infrastructure from the ground up. The team needed a system that could ingest massive streams of usage events in real time, query them efficiently, and evolve as their customers' needs changed, without forcing Lago into rigid or proprietary constraints. "As an open\-source company, we don't want to be locked in with a solution," says Engineering Lead Jérémy Denquin.
