---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/extracting-converting-querying-local-files-with-sql-clickhouse-local
topic: enhancing-google-analytics-data-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '5.75'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

flexibility. Rather than toil away in GA4 and dread the 2nd Monday of each month, we undertook a project to move all Google Analytics data to ClickHouse, with the aim of delivering flexible, fast analytics with infinite retention.

In this blog post, we explain our architecture, which hopefully fellow sufferers can use to build their own super\-charged Google Analytics using only ClickHouse and a few lines of SQL. Most importantly, this can all be achieved for less than $20 a month using ClickHouse Cloud!

## Challenges with GA4 [\#](/blog/enhancing-google-analytics-data-with-clickhouse#challenges-with-ga4)

**Flexibility.** Google Analytics' strength is its ease of integration to a site and its simple query interface. This simplicity comes at a cost, principally with flexibility. The interface, while easy to use, is restrictive and limits the user's ability to answer more complex questions such as "What is the distribution of views for blogs by the day of release?" Many of our questions also required external datasets, such as reading time and blog themes. While we were often able to overcome these challenges by either exporting data and using [clickhouse local](https://clickhouse.com/blog/extracting-converting-querying-local-files-with-sql-clickhouse-local) to query the files or using GA4's [import data feature](https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/3191589?hl=en#zippy=%2Cin-this-article), the process was sluggish and time\-consuming. As someone who considers themselves semi\-technical, I longed for the flexibility of SQL.

**Performance.** Clickhouse.com is highly trafficked \- in the 10s of thousands per day. While this might seem high, this volume of data is, in reality, very small for the sizes we're used to at ClickHouse. Despite this, the GA4 interface was always sluggish, with queries taking a long time to load. This made iterating on queries an extremely frustrating experience. And, as a company used to performing real\-time analytics on data with lightning\-fast response times, this performance was, at best frustrating and, at worst, led to us shy away from asking new questions about our data.
