---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/extracting-converting-querying-local-files-with-sql-clickhouse-local
topic: enhancing-google-analytics-data-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '5.75'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

Most of these queries comprise aggregations for which ClickHouse is optimized as a column\-oriented database, capable of delivering sub\-second response times on hundreds of billions of rows *without* sampling \- well beyond the scale we saw from GA4\.

ClickHouse supports a wide range of integrations that make the generation of reports simpler. As well as [supporting the MySQL interface](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-cloud-compatible-with-mysql), allowing the use of tools such as [Looker](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/looker), [Tableau](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/tableau-online), and [QuickSight](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/quicksight), native support for tools such as Superset and Grafana offered an open\-source BI experience. Finally, we believed the raw data would be compressed well by ClickHouse and potentially kept indefinitely at a low cost \- especially since ClickCloud Cloud uses object storage.

## Internal data warehouse [\#](/blog/enhancing-google-analytics-data-with-clickhouse#internal-data-warehouse)

At this point, it became obvious that we could solve more than simply blog reporting. Our marketing team was suffering from the same challenges identified above when reporting on wider site metrics.

As a company that prides itself on data\-driven decision\-making, we already have a [dedicated team responsible for our internal data warehouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse). If we could identify a simple way of making the data available and provide most of the required queries, we could utilize their existing techniques for loading, managing, and visualizing data.

> While ClickHouse would be an ideal data store for web analytics data, we still wanted to retain the data collection capabilities of GA4 and Google Tag Manager. We had little interest in writing our own Javascript library responsible for session tracking and data collection. Ideally, we could simply ensure the data was exported to ClickHouse at a reasonable frequency.

## Getting Data out of GA4 [\#](/blog/enhancing-google-analytics-data-with-clickhouse#getting-data-out-of-ga4)

Believing it was unlikely that the pains we were experiencing above were unique, we explored ways to export data from Google Analytics. Google offers a [number of ways to achieve this](https://analyticscanvas.com/4-ways-to-export-ga4-data/), most of which come with some limitations. The best solution appeared to be exporting the data to BigQuery. This had a number of advantages over other solutions, such as the Data API, including:
