---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/extracting-converting-querying-local-files-with-sql-clickhouse-local
topic: enhancing-google-analytics-data-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '5.75'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

all queries return in under 0\.5s. The ordering key for our table could be further optimized, and users are free to utilize features such as [Materialized Views](https://youtu.be/QUigKP7iy7Y?si=LOixamLYk93k1Yh6) and [Projections](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-faster-queries-with-projections-and-primary-indexes) if further performance improvements are required. ### Cost [\#](/blog/enhancing-google-analytics-data-with-clickhouse#cost)

In the below pricing, we assume the use of around 100GiB of storage, or 10% of capacity. This is effectively around 110 years of data for clickhouse.com, 10 years of data for a site 10x the size, or a 1\-year retention for a site 100x the size. In reality, as shown, storage is an insignificant % of the total cost due to the use of object storage in ClickHouse Cloud, and the larger site could easily store for multiple years and still remain under $20\.

We assume the cluster is active for 2 hours a day in total. This should be sufficient for loading the intra\-day data every hour and the daily export, along with additional ad\-hoc queries performed by a curious marketing department. As shown below, the larger daily export can be inserted in under 5 seconds.

Note that if the full 1TiB of storage is used, this costs a maximum of $193 per month. In reality, if the cluster is not being used, it will idle (only storage charges are incurred), thus reducing costs.

```
INSERT INTO ga_daily SELECT
	...
FROM gcs('https://storage.googleapis.com/clickhouse-website/daily/20231009-000000000000.parquet', '<key>', '<secret>')

0 rows in set. Elapsed: 5.747 sec. Processed 174.94 thousand rows, 15.32 MB (30.44 thousand rows/s., 2.67 MB/s.)

```

**Compute cost per hour:** $0\.2160
**Storage cost per month:** $35\.33 \* 0\.1 \= $3\.53
**Active hrs per day:** 2

**Total cost:** (2 hours per day \* 0\.2160 \* 30 days) \+ 3\.53 \= $16\.50

**That’s $16 a day for enhanced Google Analytics in ClickHouse!**

There are some additional costs here which we believe should be negligible. These include:
