---
source: blog
url: https://www.zanbil.ir/"
topic: compressing-nginx-logs-170x-with-column-storage
ch_version_introduced: '185.161'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

In a columnar database, queries often scan large volumes of data, so reading compressed blocks significantly reduces I/O. This reduces stress on resources, such as disk bandwidth and network, and leads to faster query execution. **Lower storage requirements**

Reducing how much data needs to be stored lowers storage costs. Even when using object storage like S3, where capacity is relatively cheap, compression still matters as more data can be cached locally in NVMEs for fast access.

**Better caching efficiency**

Compressed data fits more easily into memory and cache layers. This increases cache hit rates, reducing the need to fetch data from disks.

## Experiment with Nginx access logs [\#](/blog/log-compression-170x#experiment-with-nginx-access-logs)

Nginx access logs record every request handled by an Nginx server. It is a known dataset and makes it easy for anyone to relate and reproduce the experiment.

Each log typically includes information such as the client IP address, timestamp, HTTP method, status code, user agent, and response time. Below is an example of an nginx log entry.

```
185.161.113.50 - - [2019-02-04 23:40:49] "GET /filter/p62,b113?page=0 HTTP/1.1" 200 33948 "https://www.zanbil.ir/" "Mozilla/5.0 (Windows NT 6.1; WOW64) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/71.0.3578.98 Safari/537.36"

```

These logs are great candidates for our experiment:

1. **Consistent structure**: They follow a fixed pattern defined by the [Nginx log format](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx/admin-guide/monitoring/logging/). While values change (timestamps, IPs, URLs, response times), the overall structure remains stable.
2. **Mix of data types**: In an nginx access log, we have IP addresses, numbers, strings, and dates. This makes for a great mix of data types to highlight how to approach each of them to store best.
3. **High volume**: Access logs accumulate quickly in production systems, often generating gigabytes or terabytes of data. This scale directly impacts compression efficiency and storage costs.

> Although nginx logs are typically stored in plain text files, their format is predictable. This might not be representative of typical application logs. We're cognizant of this, but pick this dataset to establish an optimistic upper bound. A later post will look at compression formats achievable for logs with less obvious structure.

### Get started with ClickStack [\#](/blog/log-compression-170x#test)

Spin up the world’s fastest and most scalable open source observability stack, in seconds.

[Try now](https://clickhouse.com/docs/use-cases/observability/clickstack/getting-started?loc=blog-o11y-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog)
## Capture a baseline [\#](/blog/log-compression-170x#capture-a-baseline)
