---
source: blog
url: https://www.zanbil.ir/"
topic: compressing-nginx-logs-170x-with-column-storage
ch_version_introduced: '185.161'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

directly. We can also validate that the full dataset was ingested correctly. ``` ``` INSERT INTO nginx_raw SELECT line As Body FROM s3('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/http_logs/nginx-66.log.gz', 'LineAsString') SELECT count() FROM nginx_raw ┌──count()─┐ │ 66747290 │ -- 66.75 million └──────────┘ ``` ```

> The above insert command can be used to load the data into your own ClickHouse instance. Load time will depend on your local ClickHouse resources and connectivity (file is \~640MB).

Let's check how much disk space this table uses. We can do that by querying the [system.parts](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/system-tables/parts) table, which stores details about each table part, including its uncompressed and compressed sizes on disk.

```

```
SELECT
    `table`,
    formatReadableSize(SUM(data_uncompressed_bytes)) AS uncompressed_size,
    formatReadableSize(SUM(data_compressed_bytes)) AS compressed_size
FROM system.parts
WHERE (database = 'logs_blog') AND (`table` = 'nginx_raw') AND active
GROUP BY `table`
ORDER BY `table` ASC

   ┌─table─────┬─uncompressed_size─┬─compressed_size─┐
   │ nginx_raw │ 20.19 GiB         │ 575.62 MiB      │
   └───────────┴───────────────────┴─────────────────┘
```

```

No surprises here, the uncompressed size matches the one on the local disk. Internally, ClickHouse uses ZSTD(1\) compression by default \- hence the comparable compressed size.

### Turn Nginx log to a structured log (up to 56x)  [\#](/blog/log-compression-170x#turn-nginx-log-to-a-structured-log-up-to-56x)

The first step towards 170x compression is to turn the plain log we have into a structured log where each significant value (e.g., IP address, request method, URL, status code, user agent) can be stored into its own column.

Instead of storing this entire string as one column, we can parse it into individual columns like:

| Column Name | Data Type | Example Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| remote\_addr | IPv4 | 185\.161\.113\.50 |
| remote\_user | String | user |
| time\_local | DateTime | 2025\-10\-13 10:00 |
| request\_type | String | GET |
| request\_path | String | /index.html |
| status | String | HTTP/1\.1 |
| size | UInt16 | 200 |
| referrer | String | \- |
| user\_agent | String | Mozilla/5\.0 (...) |


The defined format of Nginx logs allows for easy parsing using regular expression matching functions.

Let’s create a new table using the schema we defined for our nginx access log.

```

```
CREATE TABLE nginx_column_tuple
(
    `remote_addr` String,
    `remote_user` String,
    `time_local` DateTime,
    `request_type` String,
    `request_path` String,
    `request_protocol` String,
    `status` UInt64,
    `size` UInt64,
    `referer` String,
    `user_agent` String
)
ORDER BY ()
```

```
