---
source: blog
url: https://www.zanbil.ir/"
topic: compressing-nginx-logs-170x-with-column-storage
ch_version_introduced: '185.161'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

defined for our nginx access log. ``` ``` CREATE TABLE nginx_column_tuple ( `remote_addr` String, `remote_user` String, `time_local` DateTime, `request_type` String, `request_path` String, `request_protocol` String, `status` UInt64, `size` UInt64, `referer` String, `user_agent` String ) ORDER BY () ``` ```

Now let’s ingest the log dataset into this table using the nginx\_raw table as a source and applying a regular expression to extract each value into its own column.

```

```
INSERT INTO nginx_column_tuple
SELECT
    m[1],
    m[2],
    parseDateTimeBestEffortOrNull(m[3]),
    m[4],
    m[5],
    m[6],
    toUInt64OrZero(m[7]),
    toUInt64OrZero(m[8]),
    if(length(trim(m[9])) = 0, '-', m[9]),
    m[10]
FROM (
    SELECT arrayElement(extractAllGroups(
        toValidUTF8(Body),'^(\S+) - (\S+) \[([^\]]+)\] "([A-Z]+)?\s*(.*?)\s*(HTTP\S+)?" (\d{3}) (\d+) "([^"]*)" "([^"]*)"'
    ), 1) AS m
    FROM nginx_raw
);
```

```

Let’s have another look at the size of this table.

```

```
SELECT
    `table`,
    formatReadableSize(sum(data_compressed_bytes)) AS compressed_size,
    formatReadableSize(sum(data_uncompressed_bytes)) AS uncompressed_size
FROM system.columns
WHERE `table` = 'nginx_column_tuple'
GROUP BY `table`
FORMAT VERTICAL

Row 1:
──────
table:             nginx_column_tuple
compressed_size:   359.52 MiB
uncompressed_size: 18.48 GiB
```

```

> Notice that the uncompressed size is smaller than in the previous experiment. This reduction comes from using a columnar format and from the regular expression filtering, which removed unnecessary characters.

The compressed size now is 359\.52 MB, which gives a compression ratio of 56x. Simply structuring the log to store key values in separate columns already improves the compression ratio from 35x to 56x. Although the log is no longer stored in its original format, none of the significant information has been lost. We can still reconstruct the log if needed, and we'll do that later in the blog.

## Optimize data types (up to 92x)  [\#](/blog/log-compression-170x#optimize-data-types-up-to-92x)

It's important to choose [column data types carefully](https://clickhouse.com/docs/best-practices/select-data-types) in a columnar database. The data type decides how much disk space is reserved to fit the largest possible value of that type. Even if the actual value is small, the database still uses space based on the full size of the data type. Note that if only smaller values are stored in this type, the data should compress well (lots of 0 sequences are favorable to compression). However, this still wastes considerable memory when the data is uncompressed for reading.
