---
source: blog
url: https://www.zanbil.ir/"
topic: compressing-nginx-logs-170x-with-column-storage
ch_version_introduced: '185.161'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

type. Note that if only smaller values are stored in this type, the data should compress well (lots of 0 sequences are favorable to compression). However, this still wastes considerable memory when the data is uncompressed for reading.

We already noticed that the nginx access log contains data that matches specific data types supported by ClickHouse, and already used them in our first experiment. Now we want to optimize further the types we're using.

We can leverage the [LowCardinality](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/data-types/lowcardinality) type, which optimizes the way data is stored on disk by applying dictionary coding to the column. The only caveat is that this method is efficient up to a certain scale. It's best to experiment with it, but the rule of thumb is that any column with a cardinality below 100,000 distinct values can benefit from this approach. 

Let's have a look at the cardinality of each column.

```

```
SELECT * APPLY uniq
FROM nginx_column_tuple
FORMAT VERTICAL

Row 1:
──────
uniq(remote_addr):      258115
uniq(remote_user):      2
uniq(time_local):       2579628 -- 2.58 million
uniq(request_type):     5
uniq(request_path):     881124
uniq(request_protocol): 3
uniq(status):           15
uniq(size):             69712
uniq(referer):          103048
uniq(user_agent):       28344
```

```

From this, we can see that the String columns `remote_user`, `request_type`, `request_protocol` and `user_agent` are good candidates for LowCardinality.

Next, we can leverage [compression codecs](https://clickhouse.com/docs/data-compression/compression-in-clickhouse#choosing-the-right-column-compression-codec) supported by ClickHouse to further optimize the compression rate.

Let's do a new experiment with LowCardinality and different compression codecs.

```

```
CREATE TABLE nginx_column_tuple_optimized_types
(
    `remote_addr` IPv4,
    `remote_user` LowCardinality(String),
    `time_local` DateTime CODEC(Delta(4), ZSTD(1)),
    `request_type` LowCardinality(String),
    `request_path` String CODEC(ZSTD(6)),
    `request_protocol` LowCardinality(String),
    `status` UInt16,
    `size` UInt32,
    `referer` String CODEC(ZSTD(6)),
    `user_agent` LowCardinality(String)
)
ORDER BY ()
```

```

Now we can simply re\-ingest the data from the table `nginx_column_tuple` as it's already stored in columns.

```

```
INSERT INTO nginx_column_tuple_optimized_types SELECT * FROM nginx_column_tuple;
```

```

Let’s look at the table size.

```

```
SELECT
    `table`,
    formatReadableSize(sum(data_compressed_bytes)) AS compressed_size,
    formatReadableSize(sum(data_uncompressed_bytes)) AS uncompressed_size
FROM system.columns
WHERE `table` = 'nginx_column_tuple_optimized_types'
GROUP BY `table`
FORMAT VERTICAL

Row 1:
──────
table:             nginx_column_tuple_optimized_types
compressed_size:   218.42 MiB
uncompressed_size: 9.69 GiB
```

```

The compressed size is down to 218 MB \- a compression ratio of 92x. This is a great achievement, but not quite the 170x we promised. We still have one lever to action, how data is ordered on disk.

## Ordering data on disk (reached 178x!) [\#](/blog/log-compression-170x#ordering-data-on-disk-reached-178x)
