---
source: blog
url: https://www.zanbil.ir/"
topic: compressing-nginx-logs-170x-with-column-storage
ch_version_introduced: '185.161'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

cardinality, a column can be a good ordering key if a few values cover most of the data. For `referer`, `remote_addr`, `user_agent`, and `request_path`, we take the top 20 values in each column and compute their percentage share.

The `referer` and `user_agent` columns show a more skewed distribution than the other two. We also see that after about the 12th value, the distribution flattens, so there’s no need to analyze a longer tail.
Based on this, we can select the following ordering keys: `referer`, `remote_user`, `user_agent`, `request_path`. The idea is to start with the `referer` column since it’s the largest one. Its high cardinality is offset by a skewed distribution, which helps compression. Next comes remote\_addr, a low\-cardinality column that won’t break data clusters in the following columns. Then we include `user_agent` for reasons similar to the `referer`. Finally, we order by request\_path to get additional compression benefits on that large column.

Let’s create the table and ingest the data. 

```

```
-- Create table
CREATE TABLE nginx_column_tuple_optimized_types_sort
(
    `remote_addr` IPv4,
    `remote_user` LowCardinality(String),
    `time_local` DateTime CODEC(Delta(4), ZSTD(1)),
    `request_type` LowCardinality(String),
    `request_path` String CODEC(ZSTD(6)),
    `request_protocol` LowCardinality(String),
    `status` UInt16,
    `size` UInt32,
    `referer` String CODEC(ZSTD(6)),
    `user_agent` LowCardinality(String)
)
ORDER BY (referer, user_agent, remote_user, request_path);

-- Ingest data to new table
INSERT INTO nginx_column_tuple_optimized_types_sort SELECT * FROM nginx_column_tuple;
```

```

Let’s have a look at the total size used by this table.

```

```
SELECT
    `table`,
    formatReadableSize(sum(data_compressed_bytes)) AS compressed_size,
    formatReadableSize(sum(data_uncompressed_bytes)) AS uncompressed_size
FROM system.columns
WHERE `table` = 'nginx_column_tuple_optimized_types_sort'
GROUP BY `table`
FORMAT VERTICAL

Row 1:
──────
table:             nginx_column_tuple_optimized_types_sort
compressed_size:   109.12 MiB
uncompressed_size: 9.70 GiB
```

```

This gives us a very impressive compression rate from the raw log file on disk. 20 Gb down to 109 Mb \- a **178x compression ratio**!

## Back to (sad) reality [\#](/blog/log-compression-170x#back-to-sad-reality)

This is a great achievement, but let’s be honest, it’s uncommon to filter nginx logs by `referer` or `user_agent`. Those fields can be useful during analysis but most queries filter by time e.g. “show me the access logs from the last hour”. Let’s have a quick look at the compression ratio in this more typical scenario.
