---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres
topic: clickhouse-and-postgresql-a-match-made-in-data-heaven-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '28535.465'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

queries. The results presented are the fastest of five executions. We have also attempted to optimize these to exploit the indexes where possible but welcome further suggestions! ### Average price per year for flats in the UK [\#](/blog/migrating-data-between-clickhouse-postgres#average-price-per-year-for-flats-in-the-uk)

```

psql -c "\timing" -c "SELECT
	extract(year from date) as year,
	round(avg(price)) AS price
FROM uk_price_paid
WHERE type = 'flat'
GROUP BY year
ORDER BY year"

 year | price
------+--------
 1995 |  59004
 1996 |  63913
…
 2021 | 310626
 2022 | 298977
(28 rows)

Time: 28535.465 ms (00:28.535)


```

This is slower than expected. The `EXPLAIN` [for this query](https://gist.github.com/gingerwizard/1488c3e9701e0ff4f952bfff9250e656), indicates that the type index is not utilized, resulting in a full table scan. The reason for this is query planner relies on tables statistics. The cardinality of the type column is very low \- 5 values, meaning 6\.3M rows have a `flat` value out of 34M \~1/6th of the total dataset. Because `type='flat'` rows are distributed in all data blocks (around 24 rows per block), the probability of having `flat` value in any single block is very high (it’s 1/6th with 24 rows per block). The query planner therefore determines a parallel sequential scan will be more efficient than reading the index (and then searching for relevant rows in the data).

My colleague [Vadim Punski](https://github.com/vadimp) actually proposed a way to speed up this query considerably. We’ve posted the solution [here](https://gist.github.com/gingerwizard/429dc2faed3468c2016e5a069939b90a) but excluded as it represents a rather poor use of Postgres and will result in a large storage footprint. The changes to the table schema will also not complete on Supabase’s free tier due to the 120s query timeout.

### Most expensive postcodes in a city [\#](/blog/migrating-data-between-clickhouse-postgres#most-expensive-postcodes-in-a-city)

From our above query we know that Postgres won’t use indexes if a linear scan is cheaper, due to a filter clause value existing in most blocks. If we filter by a less common city e.g. Bristol, the index can be exploited and the query performance improvement is dramatic.
