---
source: blog
url: http://www.benocs.com/
topic: how-benocs-uses-clickhouse-to-monitor-network-traffic-for-the-world-s-biggest-telcos
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

C* has a matching timestamp for that same hour, at least two of the four timestamps in *result 2* can be calculated. The other two timestamps need to wait until *Feed A* makes the data for it available.

ClickHouse solves this problem for BENOCS by fast lookups on the time dimension. By running *DISTINCT SELECT* queries on the primary indexing column, terabytes of data can be searched through in a matter of seconds. This makes the operation of checking the data availability light\-weight despite the heavy data burden.

However, searching through the timestamps and finding gaps efficiently is not all. The same principle also applies for the actual data processing correlation. ClickHouse’s ability to skip data based on time makes the table sizes become almost irrelevant, as it can zoom in on the needed data efficiently. This makes the processing time for a single time range independent of the actual table size as well as the position in the data. This ClickHouse mechanism allows BENOCS to run efficient self\-healing data streams in the face of unreliable data streams.

**Fuzzy Matching**

When dealing with different time scales, joining tables usually means unifying the matching columns to have *exact* matches. However, when dealing with vastly different timescales (see *Feed B/C)*, this becomes highly complicated as *FEED B* might have multiple different matches for one key in *Feed C*. Furthermore, other dimensions complicate things due to missing/incomplete data.

This is where the \_ASOF \_join of ClickHouse comes to the rescue for BENOCS. This means being able to find the nearest match instead of the exact match using a join. Combined with well selected *WHERE* clauses this becomes a powerful feature that expedites and simplifies queries massively.

**Summary**

BENOCS processes vast amounts of data in ClickHouse, utilizing its powerful engine. The ability to zero in on the needed data and being able to ignore irrelevant data lets BENOCS build a self\-healing data pipeline that can handle unreliable and volatile data feeds into a stable analysis for its customers.

If you’re a telco provider wanting to optimize your network traffic, head on over to [www.benocs.com](http://www.benocs.com/) and register for a free Demolytics account to see BENOCS *Flow Analytics* in action.

Authors: Ingmar Poese \& Rebecca Maschke, BENOCS
