---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/best-practices/minimize_optimize_joins.md)#
topic: minimize-and-optimize-joins-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

# Minimize and optimize JOINs \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Best practices](/docs/best-practices)- Minimize and optimize JOINs
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/best-practices/minimize_optimize_joins.md)# Minimize and optimize JOINs

ClickHouse supports a wide variety of JOIN types and algorithms, and JOIN performance has improved significantly in recent releases. However, JOINs are inherently more expensive than querying from a single, denormalized table. Denormalization shifts computational work from query time to insert or pre\-processing time, which often results in significantly lower latency at runtime. For real\-time or latency\-sensitive analytical queries, **denormalization is strongly recommended**.

In general, denormalize when:

- Tables change infrequently or when batch refreshes are acceptable.
- Relationships aren't many\-to\-many or not excessively high in cardinality.
- Only a limited subset of the columns will be queried, i.e. certain columns can be excluded from denormalization.
- You have the capability to shift processing out of ClickHouse into upstream systems like [Flink](/docs/integrations/apache-flink), where real\-time enrichment or flattening can be managed.

Not all data needs to be denormalized — focus on the attributes that are frequently queried. Also consider [materialized views](/docs/best-practices/use-materialized-views) to incrementally compute aggregates instead of duplicating entire sub\-tables. When schema updates are rare and latency is critical, denormalization offers the best performance trade\-off.

For a full guide on denormalizing data in ClickHouse see [here](/docs/data-modeling/denormalization).

## When JOINs are required[​](#when-joins-are-required "Direct link to When JOINs are required")

When JOINs are required, ensure you're using **at least version 24\.12 and preferably the latest version**, as JOIN performance continues to improve with each new release. As of ClickHouse 24\.12, the query planner now automatically places the smaller table on the right side of the join for optimal performance — a task that previously had to be done manually. Even more enhancements are coming soon, including more aggressive filter pushdown and automatic re\-ordering of multiple joins.

Follow these best practices to improve JOIN performance:
