---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/best-practices/minimize_optimize_joins.md)#
topic: minimize-and-optimize-joins-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

for optimal performance — a task that previously had to be done manually. Even more enhancements are coming soon, including more aggressive filter pushdown and automatic re\-ordering of multiple joins. Follow these best practices to improve JOIN performance:

- **Avoid Cartesian products**: If a value on the left\-hand side matches multiple values on the right\-hand side, the JOIN will return multiple rows — the so\-called Cartesian product. If your use case doesn't need all matches from the right\-hand side but just any single match, you can use `ANY` JOINs (e.g. `LEFT ANY JOIN`). They're faster and use less memory than regular JOINs.
- **Reduce the sizes of JOINed tables**: The runtime and memory consumption of JOINs grows proportionally with the sizes of the left and right tables. To reduce the amount of processed data by the JOIN, add additional filter conditions in the `WHERE` or `JOIN ON` clauses of the query. ClickHouse pushes filter conditions as deep as possible down in the query plan, usually before JOINs. If the filters aren't pushed down automatically (for any reason), rewrite one side of the JOIN as a sub\-query to force pushdown.
- **Use direct JOINs via dictionaries if appropriate**: Standard JOINs in ClickHouse are executed in two phases: a build phase which iterates the right\-hand side to build a hash table, followed by a probe phase which iterates the left\-hand side to find matching join partners via hash table lookups. If the right\-hand side is a [dictionary](/docs/dictionary) or another table engine with key\-value characteristics (e.g. [EmbeddedRocksDB](/docs/engines/table-engines/integrations/embedded-rocksdb) or the [Join table engine](/docs/engines/table-engines/special/join)), then ClickHouse can use the "direct" join algorithm, which effectively removes the need to build a hash table, speeding up query processing. This works for `INNER` and `LEFT OUTER` JOINs and is preferred for real\-time analytical workloads.
- **Utilize table sorting for JOINs**: Each table in ClickHouse is sorted by the table's primary key columns. It is possible to exploit the table's sorting by using so\-called sort\-merge JOIN algorithms like `full_sorting_merge` and `partial_merge`. Unlike standard JOIN algorithms based on hash tables (see below, `parallel_hash`, `hash`, `grace_hash`), sort\-merge JOIN algorithms first sort and then merge both tables. If the query JOINs both tables by their respective primary key columns, then sort\-merge has an optimization which omits the sort step, saving processing time and overhead.
- **Avoid disk\-spilling JOINs**: Intermediate states of JOINs (e.g. hash tables) can become so big that they no longer fit into main memory. In this situation, ClickHouse will return an out\-of\-memory error by default. Some join algorithms (see below), for example [`grace_hash`](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-hash-joins-part2), [`partial_merge`](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-full-sort-partial-merge-part3) and [`full_sorting_merge`](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-full-sort-partial-merge-part3), are able to spill intermediate states to disk and continue query execution. These join algorithms should nevertheless be used with care as disk access can significantly slow down join processing. We instead recommend optimizing the JOIN query in other ways to reduce the size of intermediate states.
- **Default values as no\-match markers in outer JOINs**: Left/right/full outer joins include all values from the left/right/both tables. If no join partner is found in the other table for some value, ClickHouse replaces the join partner by a special marker. The SQL standard mandates that databases use NULL as such a marker. In ClickHouse, this requires wrapping the result column in Nullable, creating an additional memory and performance overhead. As an alternative, you can configure the setting `join_use_nulls = 0` and use the default value of the result column data type as the marker.
