---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/combinators.md)#
topic: aggregate-function-combinators-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '1.23'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

# Aggregate Function Combinators \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Functions](/docs/sql-reference/functions)- [Aggregate functions](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions)- Combinators
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/combinators.md)# Aggregate Function Combinators

The name of an aggregate function can have a suffix appended to it. This changes the way the aggregate function works.

## \-If[​](#-if "Direct link to -If")

The suffix \-If can be appended to the name of any aggregate function. In this case, the aggregate function accepts an extra argument – a condition (Uint8 type). The aggregate function processes only the rows that trigger the condition. If the condition was not triggered even once, it returns a default value (usually zeros or empty strings).

Examples: `sumIf(column, cond)`, `countIf(cond)`, `avgIf(x, cond)`, `quantilesTimingIf(level1, level2)(x, cond)`, `argMinIf(arg, val, cond)` and so on.

With conditional aggregate functions, you can calculate aggregates for several conditions at once, without using subqueries and `JOIN`s. For example, conditional aggregate functions can be used to implement the segment comparison functionality.

## \-Array[​](#-array "Direct link to -Array")

The \-Array suffix can be appended to any aggregate function. In this case, the aggregate function takes arguments of the 'Array(T)' type (arrays) instead of 'T' type arguments. If the aggregate function accepts multiple arguments, this must be arrays of equal lengths. When processing arrays, the aggregate function works like the original aggregate function across all array elements.

Example 1: `sumArray(arr)` \- Totals all the elements of all 'arr' arrays. In this example, it could have been written more simply: `sum(arraySum(arr))`.

Example 2: `uniqArray(arr)` – Counts the number of unique elements in all 'arr' arrays. This could be done an easier way: `uniq(arrayJoin(arr))`, but it's not always possible to add 'arrayJoin' to a query.

\-If and \-Array can be combined. However, 'Array' must come first, then 'If'. Examples: `uniqArrayIf(arr, cond)`, `quantilesTimingArrayIf(level1, level2)(arr, cond)`. Due to this order, the 'cond' argument won't be an array.

## \-Map[​](#-map "Direct link to -Map")

The \-Map suffix can be appended to any aggregate function. This will create an aggregate function which gets Map type as an argument, and aggregates values of each key of the map separately using the specified aggregate function. The result is also of a Map type.

**Example**
