---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 76
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

TO all;` table subq: `CREATE ROW POLICY pol1 ON test_delete USING tenant not in deleted_tenants TO all;` ext. dict. NOT dictHas : `CREATE ROW POLICY pol1 ON test_delete USING NOT dictHas('deleted_tenants_dict', tenant) TO all;` ext. dict. dictHas :

| Q | no policy | expression | table subq | ext. dict. NOT | ext. dict. | engine\=Set |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Q1 | 0\.285 / 200\.00m | 0\.333 / 140\.08m | 0\.329 / 140\.08m | 0\.388 / 200\.00m | 0\.399 / 200\.00m | 0\.322 / 200\.00m |
| Q2 | 0\.265 / 20\.23m | 0\.287 / 20\.23m | 0\.287 / 20\.23m | 0\.291 / 20\.23m | 0\.284 / 20\.23m | 0\.275 / 20\.23m |
| Q3 | 0\.062 / 20\.23m | 0\.080 / 20\.23m | 0\.080 / 20\.23m | 0\.084 / 20\.23m | 0\.080 / 20\.23m | 0\.084 / 20\.23m |
| Q4 | 0\.009 / 212\.99t | 0\.011 / 212\.99t | 0\.010 / 213\.00t | 0\.010 / 212\.99t | 0\.010 / 212\.99t | 0\.010 / 212\.99t |
| Q5 |  | 0\.008 / 180\.22t | 0\.008 / 180\.23t | 0\.046 / 20\.22m | 0\.034 / 20\.22m | 0\.030 / 20\.22m |

Expression in row policy seems to be fastest way (Q1, Q5\).

# 2\.8 \- Why is simple \`SELECT count()\` Slow in ClickHouse®?

ClickHouse is a columnar database that provides excellent performance for analytical queries. However, in some cases, a simple count query can be slow. In this article, we’ll explore the reasons why this can happen and how to optimize the query.

### Three Strategies for Counting Rows in ClickHouse

There are three ways to count rows in a table in ClickHouse:

1. `optimize_trivial_count_query`: This strategy extracts the number of rows from the table metadata. It’s the fastest and most efficient way to count rows, but it only works for simple count queries.
2. `allow_experimental_projection_optimization`: This strategy uses a virtual projection called \_minmax\_count\_projection to count rows. It’s faster than scanning the table but slower than the trivial count query.
3. Scanning the smallest column in the table and reading rows from that. This is the slowest strategy and is only used when the other two strategies can’t be used.

### Why Does ClickHouse Sometimes Choose the Slowest Counting Strategy?
