---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 77
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

the smallest column in the table and reading rows from that. This is the slowest strategy and is only used when the other two strategies can’t be used. ### Why Does ClickHouse Sometimes Choose the Slowest Counting Strategy?

In some cases, ClickHouse may choose the slowest counting strategy even when there are faster options available. Here are some possible reasons why this can happen:

1. Row policies are used on the table: If row policies are used, ClickHouse needs to filter rows to give the proper count. You can check if row policies are used by selecting from system.row\_policies.
2. Experimental light\-weight delete feature was used on the table: If the experimental light\-weight delete feature was used, ClickHouse may use the slowest counting strategy. You can check this by looking into parts\_columns for the column named \_row\_exists. To do this, run the following query:

```
SELECT DISTINCT database, table FROM system.parts_columns WHERE column = '_row_exists';

```
You can also refer to this issue on GitHub for more information: <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/47930>
.

3. `SELECT FINAL` or `final=1` setting is used.
4. `max_parallel_replicas > 1` is used.
5. Sampling is used.
6. Some other features like `allow_experimental_query_deduplication` or `empty_result_for_aggregation_by_empty_set` is used.
# 2\.9 \- Collecting query execution flamegraphs using system.trace\_log

ClickHouse® has embedded functionality to analyze the details of query performance.

It’s `system.trace_log` table.

By default it collects information only about queries when runs longer than 1 sec (and collects stacktraces every second).

You can adjust that per query using settings `query_profiler_real_time_period_ns` \& `query_profiler_cpu_time_period_ns`.

Both works very similar (with desired interval dump the stacktraces of all the threads which execute the query).
real timer \- allows to ‘see’ the situations when cpu was not working much, but time was spend for example on IO.
cpu timer \- allows to see the ‘hot’ points in calculations more accurately (skip the io time).

Trying to collect stacktraces with a frequency higher than few KHz is usually not possible.

To check where most of the RAM is used you can collect stacktraces during memory allocations / deallocation, by using the
setting `memory_profiler_sample_probability`.

### clickhouse\-speedscope

```
# install 
wget https://github.com/laplab/clickhouse-speedscope/archive/refs/heads/master.tar.gz -O clickhouse-speedscope.tar.gz
tar -xvzf clickhouse-speedscope.tar.gz
cd clickhouse-speedscope-master/
pip3 install -r requirements.txt

```
For debugging particular query:
