---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 225
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

5\.6 \- Altinity Kubernetes Operator For ClickHouse® Altinity Kubernetes Operator For ClickHouse®## Altinity Kubernetes Operator for ClickHouse® Documentation [https://github.com/Altinity/clickhouse\-operator/blob/master/docs/README.md](https://github.com/Altinity/clickhouse-operator/blob/master/docs/README.md) # 5\.7 \- ClickHouse® and different filesystems ClickHouse® and different filesystems.In general ClickHouse® should work with any POSIX\-compatible filesystem.

- hard links and soft links support is mandatory.
- ClickHouse can use O\_DIRECT mode to bypass the cache (and async io)
- ClickHouse can use renameat2 command for some atomic operations (not all the filesystems support that).
- depending on the schema and details of the usage the filesystem load can vary between the setup. The most natural load \- is high throughput, with low or moderate IOPS.
- data is compressed in ClickHouse (LZ4 by default), while indexes / marks / metadata files \- no. Enabling disk\-level compression can sometimes improve the compression, but can affect read / write speed.

### ext4

no issues, fully supported.

The minimum kernel version required is 3\.15 (newer are recommended)

### XFS

Performance issues reported by users, use on own risk. Old kernels are not recommended (4\.0 or newer is recommended).

According to the users’ feedback, XFS behaves worse with ClickHouse under heavy load.
We don’t have real proofs/benchmarks though, example reports:

- In GitHub there are [complaints about XFS](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/520)
from Cloudflare.
- Recently my colleague discovered that two of ClickHouse servers perform worse in a cluster than
others and they found that they accidentally set up those servers with XFS instead of Ext4\.
- in the system journal you can sometimes see reports like ’task XYZ blocked for more than 120 seconds’ and stack trace pointing to XFS code (example: <https://gist.github.com/filimonov/85b894268f978c2ccc18ea69bae5adbd>
)
- system goes to 99% io kernel under load sometimes.
- we have XFS, sometimes ClickHouse goes to “sleep” because XFS daemon is doing smth unknown

Maybe the above problem can be workaround by some tuning/settings, but so far we do not have a working and confirmed way to do this.

### ZFS

Limitations exist, extra tuning may be needed, and having more RAM is recommended. Old kernels are not recommended.

Memory usage control \- ZFS adaptive replacement cache (ARC) can take a lot of RAM. It can be the reason of out\-of\-memory issues when memory is also requested by the ClickHouse.
