---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 322
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

probably it will be as high as thousands. First, backup the `distributed_ddl_queue` into a table so you will have a snapshot of the table with the states of the tasks. You can do this with the following command:

```
CREATE TABLE default.system_distributed_ddl_queue AS SELECT * FROM system.distributed_ddl_queue;

```
After this, we need to check from the backup table which tasks are not finished and execute them manually in the missed replicas, and review the pipeline which do `ON CLUSTER` command and does not abuse them. There is a new `CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE` command that can be used to avoid the `ON CLUSTER` command in some cases, where you need an intermediate table to do some operations and after that you can `INSERT INTO` the final table or do `ALTER TABLE final ATTACH PARTITION FROM TABLE temp` and this temp table will be dropped automatically after the session is closed.

# 5\.45\.1 \- There are N unfinished hosts (0 of them are currently active).

There are N unfinished hosts (0 of them are currently active).Sometimes your Distributed DDL queries are being stuck, and not executing on all or subset of nodes, there are a lot of possible reasons for that kind of behavior, so it would take some time and effort to investigate.

## Possible reasons

### ClickHouse® node can’t recognize itself

```
SELECT * FROM system.clusters; -- check is_local column, it should have 1 for itself

```

```
getent hosts clickhouse.local.net # or other name which should be local
hostname --fqdn

cat /etc/hosts
cat /etc/hostname

```
### Debian / Ubuntu

There is an issue in Debian based images, when hostname being mapped to 127\.0\.1\.1 address which doesn’t literally match network interface and ClickHouse fails to detect this address as local.

<https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/23504>

#### Previous task is being executed and taking some time

It’s usually some heavy operations like merges, mutations, alter columns, so it make sense to check those tables:

```
SHOW PROCESSLIST;
SELECT * FROM system.merges;
SELECT * FROM system.mutations;

```
In that case, you can just wait completion of previous task.

### Previous task is stuck because of some error

In that case, the first step is to understand which exact task is stuck and why. There are some queries which can help with that.
