---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 345
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

aware of burst / baseline disk speed difference. See also: <https://benchmark.clickhouse.com/hardware/> ### **Zookeeper** Zookeeper requires separate servers from those used for ClickHouse. Zookeeper has poor performance when installed on the same node as ClickHouse. Hardware Requirements for Zookeeper:

- Fast disk speed (ideally NVMe, 128Gb should be enough).
- Any modern CPU (one core, better 2\)
- 4Gb of RAM

For clouds \- be careful with burstable network disks (like gp2 on aws): you may need up to 1000 IOPs on the disk for on a long run, so gp3 with 3000 IOPs baseline is a better choice.

The number of Zookeeper instances depends on the environment:

- Production: 3 is an optimal number of zookeeper instances.
- Development and Staging: 1 zookeeper instance is sufficient.

See also:

- [https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/clickhouse\-zookeeper/](https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/clickhouse-zookeeper/)
- [altinity\-kb\-proper\-setup](http://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-zookeeper/altinity-kb-proper-setup/)
- [zookeeper\-monitoring](http://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-zookeeper/zookeeper-monitoring/)

#### ClickHouse Hardware Configuration

Configure the servers according to those recommendations on the [ClickHouse Usage Recommendations](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/tips/)
.

#### **Test Your Hardware**

Be sure to test the following:

- RAM speed.
- Network speed.
- Storage speed.

It’s better to find any performance issues before installing ClickHouse.

# 5\.55\.5 \- Network Configuration

Network Configuration### **Networking And Server Room Planning**

The network used for your ClickHouse® cluster should be a fast network, ideally 10 Gbit or more.
ClickHouse nodes generate a lot of traffic to exchange the data between nodes (port 9009 for replication, and 9000 for distributed queries).
Zookeeper traffic in normal circumstances is moderate, but in some special cases can also be very significant.

For the zookeeper low latency is more important than bandwidth.

Keep the replicas isolated on the hardware level. This allows for cluster failover from possible outages.

- For Physical Environments: Avoid placing 2 ClickHouse replicas on the same server rack. Ideally, they should be on isolated network switches and an isolated power supply.
- For Clouds Environments: Use different availability zones between the ClickHouse replicas when possible (but be aware of the interzone traffic costs)

These considerations are the same as the Zookeeper nodes.

For example:
