---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 359
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

limitations. The most typical is `<max_execution_time>` It’s actually also not a way to plan/share existing resources better, but it at least disciplines users. Also introducing some [restrictions on query complexity](https://clickhouse.tech/docs/en/operations/settings/query-complexity/) can be a good option to discipline users.

You can find the preset example [here](https://clickhouse.tech/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-profiles/)
.
Also, force\_index\_by\_date \+ force\_primary\_key can be a nice idea to avoid queries that ‘accidentally’ do full scans, max\_concurrent\_queries\_for\_user
8. merge\_tree settings: `max_bytes_to_merge_at_max_space_in_pool` (may be reduced in some scenarios), `inactive_parts_to_throw_insert` \- can be enabled, `replicated_deduplication_window` \- can be extended if single insert create lot of parts , `merge_with_ttl_timeout` \- when you use ttl
9. `insert_distributed_sync` \- for small clusters you may sometimes want to enable it
10. when the durability is the main requirement (or server / storage is not stable) \- you may want to enable `fsync_*` setting (impacts the write performance significantly!!), and `insert_quorum`
11. If you use FINAL queries \- usually you want to enable `do_not_merge_across_partitions_select_final`
12. memory usage per server / query / user: [memory configuration settings](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-memory-configuration-settings/)
13. if you use async\_inserts \- you often may want to increase max\_concurrent\_queries

```
<clickhouse>
    <max_concurrent_queries>500</max_concurrent_queries>
    <max_concurrent_insert_queries>400</max_concurrent_insert_queries>
    <max_concurrent_select_queries>100</max_concurrent_select_queries>
</clickhouse>

```
11. materialize\_ttl\_after\_modify\=0
12. access\_management\=1
13. secret in \<remote\_servers\>

See also:

[https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/security/clickhouse\-hardening\-guide/](https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/security/clickhouse-hardening-guide/)

# 5\.61 \- Shutting down a node

Shutting down a nodeIt’s possible to shutdown server on fly, but that would lead to failure of some queries.

More safer way:

- Remove server (which is going to be disabled) from remote\_server section of config.xml on all servers.

	- avoid removing the last replica of the shard (that can lead to incorrect data placement if you use non\-random distribution)
- Remove server from load balancer, so new queries wouldn’t hit it.
- Detach Kafka / Rabbit / Buffer tables (if used), and Materialized\* databases.
- Wait until all already running queries would finish execution on it.
It’s possible to check it via query:

```
SHOW PROCESSLIST;

```
- Ensure there is no pending data in distributed tables

```
SELECT * FROM system.distribution_queue;
SYSTEM FLUSH DISTRIBUTED <table_name>;

```
- Run sync replica query in related shard replicas (others than the one you remove) via query:

```
SYSTEM SYNC REPLICA db.table;

```
- Shutdown server.
