---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 368
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

to fetch them from other replicas. After we add the removed disk to storage\_policy back, ClickHouse finds missing parts, but at this moment they are not registered for that replica. ClickHouse produce error message like this: #### Warning

Application: DB::Exception: The local set of parts of table default.tbl doesn’t look like the set of parts in ZooKeeper: 14\.96 billion rows of 16\.24 billion total rows in filesystem are suspicious. There are 45 unexpected parts with 14960302620 rows (43 of them is not just\-written with 14959824636 rows), 0 missing parts (with 0 blocks).: Cannot attach table `default`.`tbl` from metadata file /var/lib/clickhouse/metadata/default/tbl.sql from query ATTACH TABLE default.tbl … ENGINE\=ReplicatedMergeTree(’/clickhouse/tables/0/default/tbl’, ‘replica\-0’)… SETTINGS index\_granularity \= 1024, storage\_policy \= ’ebs\_hot\_and\_cold’: while loading database `default` from path /var/lib/clickhouse/metadata/dataAt this point, it’s possible to either tune setting `replicated_max_ratio_of_wrong_parts` or do force restore, but it will end up downloading all “missing” parts from other replicas, which can take a lot of time for big tables.

### ClickHouse 21\.7\+

1. Rename table SQL attach script in order to prevent ClickHouse from attaching it at startup.

```
mv /var/lib/clickhouse/metadata/default/tbl.sql /var/lib/clickhouse/metadata/default/tbl.sql.bak

```
2. Start ClickHouse server.
3. Remove metadata for this replica from ZooKeeper.

```
SYSTEM DROP REPLICA 'replica-0' FROM ZKPATH '/clickhouse/tables/0/default/tbl';

SELECT * FROM system.zookeeper WHERE path = '/clickhouse/tables/0/default/tbl/replicas';

```
4. Rename table SQL attach script back to normal name.

```
mv /var/lib/clickhouse/metadata/default/tbl.sql.bak /var/lib/clickhouse/metadata/default/tbl.sql

```
5. Attach table to ClickHouse server, because there is no metadata in ZooKeeper, ClickHouse will attach it in read only state.

```
ATTACH TABLE default.tbl;

```
6. Run `SYSTEM RESTORE REPLICA` in order to sync state on disk and in ZooKeeper.

```
SYSTEM RESTORE REPLICA default.tbl;

```
7. Run `SYSTEM SYNC REPLICA` to download missing parts from other replicas.

```
SYSTEM SYNC REPLICA default.tbl;

```
# 5\.67 \- ZooKeeper

ZooKeeper### Requirements

TLDR version:

1. USE DEDICATED FAST DISKS for the transaction log! (crucial for performance due to write\-ahead\-log, NVMe is preferred for heavy load setup).
2. use 3 nodes (more nodes \= slower quorum, less \= no HA).
3. low network latency between zookeeper nodes is very important (latency, not bandwidth).
4. have at least 4Gb of RAM, disable swap, [tune JVM sizes, and garbage collector settings](https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-zookeeper/jvm-sizes-and-garbage-collector-settings/)
5. ensure that zookeeper will not be CPU\-starved by some other processes
6. [monitor zookeeper](https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-zookeeper/zookeeper-monitoring/)
.
