---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 377
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

This article explains how to check watches set by ZooKeeper servers and how it is used. **Solution:** Zookeeper uses the `'wchc'` command to list all watches set on the Zookeeper server. `# echo wchc | nc zookeeper 2181`

Reference

[https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3\.4\.12/zookeeperAdmin.html](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.12/zookeeperAdmin.html)

The `wchp` and `wchc` commands are not enabled by default because of their known DOS vulnerability. For more information, see [ZOOKEEPER\-2693](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ZOOKEEPER-2693)
and [Zookeeper 3\.5\.2 \- Denial of Service](https://vulners.com/exploitdb/EDB-ID:41277)
.

By default those commands are disabled, they can be enabled via Java system property:

`-Dzookeeper.4lw.commands.whitelist=*`

on in zookeeper config: `4lw.commands.whitelist=*`\\

# 5\.67\.5 \- JVM sizes and garbage collector settings

JVM sizes and garbage collector settings## TLDR version

use fresh Java version (11 or newer), disable swap and set up (for 4 Gb node):

```
JAVA_OPTS="-Xms512m -Xmx3G -XX:+AlwaysPreTouch -Djute.maxbuffer=8388608 -XX:MaxGCPauseMillis=50"

```
If you have a node with more RAM \- change it accordingly, for example for 8Gb node:

```
JAVA_OPTS="-Xms512m -Xmx7G -XX:+AlwaysPreTouch -Djute.maxbuffer=8388608 -XX:MaxGCPauseMillis=50"

```
## Details

1. ZooKeeper runs as in JVM. Depending on version different garbage collectors are available.
2. Recent JVM versions (starting from 10\) use `G1` garbage collector by default (should work fine).
On JVM 13\-14 using `ZGC` or `Shenandoah` garbage collector may reduce pauses.
On older JVM version (before 10\) you may want to make some tuning to decrease pauses, ParNew \+ CMS garbage collectors (like in Yandex config) is one of the best options.
3. One of the most important setting for JVM application is heap size. A heap size of \>1 GB is recommended for most use cases and monitoring heap usage to ensure no delays are caused by garbage collection. We recommend to use at least 4Gb of RAM for zookeeper nodes (8Gb is better, that will make difference only when zookeeper is heavily loaded).

Set the Java heap size smaller than available RAM size on the node. This is very important to avoid swapping, which will seriously degrade ZooKeeper performance. Be conservative \- use a maximum heap size of 3GB for a 4GB machine.
