---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 412
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

the table Up to a few hundreds. With thousands of columns the inserts / background merges may become slower / require more of RAM. See for example <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/6943> <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/27502> ### ClickHouse instances on a single node / VM

One is enough. Single ClickHouse can use resources of the node very efficiently, and it may require some complicated tuning to run several instances on a single node.

### Number of parts / partitions (system\-wide, across all databases)

More than several dozens thousands may lead to performance degradation: slow starts (see <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/10087>
).

### Number of tables \& partitions touched by a single insert

If you have realtime / frequent inserts no more than few.

For the inserts are rare \- up to couple of dozens.

### Number of parts in the single table

More than \~ 5 thousands may lead to issues with alters in Replicated tables (caused by `jute.maxbuffer` overrun, see [details](../altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/zookeeper-session-expired.md)
), and query speed degradation.

### Disk size per shard

Less than 10TB of compressed data per server. Bigger disk are harder to replace / resync.

### Number of shards

Dozens is still ok. More may require having more complex (non\-flat) routing.

### Number of replicas in a single shard

2 is minimum for HA. 3 is a ‘golden standard’. Up to 6\-8 is still ok. If you have more with realtime inserts \- it can impact the zookeeper traffic.

### Number of [Zookeeper nodes](https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/clickhouse-zookeeper/)
in the ensemble

3 (Three) for most of the cases is enough (you can loose one node). Using more nodes allows to scale up read throughput for zookeeper, but doesn’t improve writes at all.

### Number of [materialized views](/altinity-kb-schema-design/materialized-views/)
attached to a single table.

Up to few. The less the better if the table is getting realtime inserts. (no matter if MV are chained or all are fed from the same source table).

The more you have the more costly your inserts are, and the bigger risks to get some inconsistencies between some MV (inserts to MV and main table are not atomic).

If the table doesn’t have realtime inserts you can have more MV.

### Number of projections inside a single table.

Up to few. Similar to MV above.

### Number of secondary indexes a single table.
