---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 468
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

LIFETIME(MIN 1 MAX 1000) LAYOUT(FLAT()); SELECT dictGet(concat(currentDatabase(), '.flat_dictionary'), 'value_en', number + 1), dictGet(concat(currentDatabase(), '.flat_dictionary'), 'value_ru', number + 1) FROM numbers(3); ``` # 11\.3 \- Dimension table design Dimension table design## Dimension table design considerations ### Choosing storage Engine

To optimize the performance of reporting queries, dimensional tables should be loaded into RAM as ClickHouse Dictionaries whenever feasible. It’s becoming increasingly common to allocate 100\-200GB of RAM per server specifically for these Dictionaries. Implementing sharding by tenant can further reduce the size of these dimension tables, enabling a greater portion of them to be stored in RAM and thus enhancing query speed.

Different Dictionary Layouts can take more or less RAM (in trade for speed).

- The cached dictionary layout is ideal for minimizing the amount of RAM required to store dimensional data when the hit ratio is high. This layout allows frequently accessed data to be kept in RAM while less frequently accessed data is stored on disk, thereby optimizing memory usage without sacrificing performance.
- HASHED\_ARRAY or SPARSE\_HASHED dictionary layouts take less RAM than HASHED. See tests [here](https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-dictionaries/altinity-kb-sparse_hashed-vs-hashed/)
.
- Normalization techniques can be used to lower RAM usage (see below)

If the amount of data is so high that it does not fit in the RAM even after suitable sharding, a disk\-based table with an appropriate engine and its parameters can be used for accessing dimensional data in report queries.

MergeTree engines (including Replacing or Aggregating) are not tuned by default for point queries due to the high index granularity (8192\) and the necessity of using FINAL (or GROUP BY) when accessing mutated data.

When using the MergeTree engine for Dimensions, the table’s index granularity should be lowered to 256\. More RAM will be used for PK, but it’s a reasonable price for reading less data from the disk and making report queries faster, and that amount can be lowered by lightweight PK design (see below).
