---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 477
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

a weight of `1`, pushing its display to the top of the list. ## Create Pages and Sections ### Create or Edit A Page To create a new page or edit an existing one in the knowledge base:

1. From the page to start from:
	1. To create a new page, select **Create child page**.
	2. To edit an existing page, select **Edit this page**.
2. This will open the page’s location in the GitHub repository. Update the page using Markdown. See the Docsy Formatting Options section below for tips and details.
	1. View how the page will look **Preview**. The GitHub Preview is not 100% the same as the page will be displayed on the knowledge base, but it is a close enough approximation.
3. Saving the file will depend on your role.
	1. For those who have been granted **Knowledgebase Contributor** status, select **Commit New File**. The changes will be automatically applied to the GitHub repository, and the additions will be displayed to the knowledge base within 1\-5 minutes.
	2. For those who have not been granted **Knowledgebase Contributor** status, they will have to fork the changes and then create a new pull request through the following process:

		1. When editing is complete, select **Propose New File**. This will being you to the **GitHub Pull Request** page.
		2. Verify the new file is accurate, then select **Create Pull Request**.
		3. Name the Pull Request, then select **Create pull request**.
		4. First time contributors will be required to review and sign the [Contributor License Agreement(CLA)](https://altinity.com/legal/content-licensing-agreement-cla/)
		. To signify they agree with the CLA, the following comment must be left as part of the pull request:
		

		```
		I have read the CLA Document and I hereby sign the CLA
		
		```This signature will be stored as part of the GitHub repository indicating the GitHub username, the date of the agreement, and the pull request where the signer indicated their consent with the CLA.
	

		1. The Pull Request will be reviewed and if approved, the changes will be applied to the Knowledge Base.

### Create a New Section
