---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://altinity.com/
topic: altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 478
total_chunks_in_doc: 478
---

agreement, and the pull request where the signer indicated their consent with the CLA. 1. The Pull Request will be reviewed and if approved, the changes will be applied to the Knowledge Base. ### Create a New Section

To create a new section in the knowledge base, add a new directory under `content/en` from either the [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/tree/main)
or through some other GitHub related method., and add the file `index.md`. The same submission process will be followed as outlined in [Create or Edit A Page](#create-or-edit-a-page)
.

## Docsy Formatting Options

Docsy uses [Markdown](https://www.markdownguide.org/getting-started/)
, providing a simple method of formatting documents. Refer to the Markdown documentation for how to edit pages and achieve the display results.

The following guide recommendations should be followed:

- Code should should be code segments, which uses three back tics to start and end a code section, with the type of code used. For example, if the code segment is regarding SQL then the section would start with \`\`\`sql\` .
- Display text should be in **bold**. For example, when requesting someone click Create New Page on a page, **Create New Page** is in bold.

### Adding Images

New images and other static files are stored in the directory `static`, with the following categories:

- Images are stored under `static/assets`.
- Pdf files are stored under `static/assets`
# 12\.1 \- Mermaid Example

A short example of using the Mermaid library to add charts.This Knowledge Base now supports [Mermaid](https://mermaid-js.github.io/mermaid/#/)
, a handy way to create charts from text. The following example shows a very simple chart, and the code to use.

To add a Mermaid chart, encase the Mermaid code between {{\< mermaid \>}}, as follows:

```
{{<mermaid>}}
graph TD;
  A-->B;
  A-->C;
  B-->D;
  C-->D;
{{</mermaid>}}

```
And it renders as so:

var config\={startOnLoad:!0,theme:"dark",align:"center"};mermaid.initialize(config)graph TD;
A\-\-\>B;
A\-\-\>C;
B\-\-\>D;
C\-\-\>D;# 13 \- Upgrade eBook

# 14 \- ClickHouse TTLs in Practice (eBook)

# 15 \-
