---
source: blog
url: https://pastebin.com/
topic: building-a-paste-service-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '4.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

retrieved back by this URL. For the backend of this service we will use ClickHouse, facing directly to the internet. The JavaScript code on the HTML page will directly perform INSERT and SELECT queries to this ClickHouse instance.

The data should be content\-addressable by its hash. We will calculate two hashes: 128\-bit [SipHash](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/hash-functions/#hash_functions-siphash128) and a 32\-bit [locality\-sensitive hash](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Locality-sensitive_hashing) (fingerprint). The SipHash is distinct for distinct data and fingerprint is a number that does not change on small changes on data.

Whenever data is edited, we also track the previous hashes, so we can navigate through edit history (to some extent).

## **Servers Setup** [\#](/blog/building-a-paste-service-with-clickhouse#servers-setup)

The data is stored in a single table in ClickHouse. I created two servers for ClickHouse in AWS for replication – one in Europe (Frankfurt) and one in the US (Ohio). I used a geographically distributed setup for lower latency on SELECT queries. I then set up geo DNS in AWS Route53 to direct traffic to the nearest server. I’ve created SSL certificates with [Let’s Encrypt](https://letsencrypt.org/) and set up port 443 for listening in ClickHouse.

I have also set up an embedded [ClickHouse Keeper](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/clickhouse-keeper/) for replication to avoid the need for a separate ZooKeeper component. It is nice when you don’t have to install anything else, only ClickHouse – it is packaged in a single binary and can be installed anywhere as easy as `curl https://clickhouse.com/ | sh`.

[ClickHouse Keeper](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/clickhouse-keeper/) works faster and more reliably than ZooKeeper, but the problem is that I have only two servers. Three servers is a minimum required for proper operation of distributed consensus. In fact, you can install it on two servers, but it gives almost no advantages over a single server – it will become unavailable for writes if any of the two servers goes offline. But if one of two servers goes offline forever, the data will still be safe, because it is replicated. So, I accepted even this anti\-pattern and installed ClickHouse Keeper across two nodes on the different sides of the Atlantic Ocean, just to observe how miserable the experience will be

## **Table Structure** [\#](/blog/building-a-paste-service-with-clickhouse#table-structure)

I created a Replicated database:

```
CREATE DATABASE paste ENGINE = Replicated('/clickhouse/databases/paste/', '{shard}', '{replica}');

```
