---
source: blog
url: https://chartmetric.com/
topic: how-chartmetric-uses-clickhouse-to-turn-artist-data-into-music-intelligence
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

of benefits. For one, the team was “blown away” by ClickHouse’s compression. “We’re talking four or five TB down to less than 60 GB, without any manual tuning,” Peter says. “This is just insane and really saves costs.”

Support, too, has beat their expectations. “There’s technical support, but there’s also use case support,” he says. “You can go to them and say: here’s our data, here’s our use case—what do we do? How would *you* do this? They’ll help you design a solution, recommend the right engine, and make optimizations if you have any issues with your queries. It’s a very white\-glove service. This is really nice when nobody on your team knows ClickHouse.”

ClickHouse Cloud also gave them confidence to expand their use cases. Inspired by a talk at a previous ClickHouse meetup, they rolled out OpenTelemetry and began piping logs and metrics directly into ClickHouse. Today, they’re storing over 20 TB of observability data (uncompressed) and querying it live with no performance concerns. “It feels so good to query this live, to get useful information out of it,” Peter says.

More than anything, ClickHouse Cloud has made their lives easier. “The biggest advantage is the hands\-off experience,” Peter says. “You don’t realize how many little things there are until you have to do them, especially when you’re doing them by hand.”

## Making time\-series fly [\#](/blog/chartmetric-uses-clickhouse-to-turn-artist-data-into-music-intelligence#making-time-series-fly)

One of Chartmetric’s first big wins with ClickHouse Cloud came from migrating time\-series tables out of Postgres RDS. These tables tracked metrics like streaming counts, follower growth, and playlist performance. They were updated daily and queried often.

Over time, those queries had become painfully slow in Snowflake and Postgres. Some took over a minute. Others timed out entirely. To speed things up, the team built a custom migration script that converted schema definitions from Snowflake and RDS into ClickHouse DDL. “Man, that script made things fast,” Peter says. It helped automate what would’ve been a complex, tedious process, especially with so many databases to sync.

To make daily syncs even more efficient, they added [projections](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/projection) that surfaced the most recent data in each table, no matter how the API queries were ordered. This reduced the overhead of idempotent, retriable logic and minimized the need for full table scans.
