---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/nginx-logs-to-clickhouse-fluent-bit
topic: sending-windows-event-logs-to-clickhouse-with-fluent-bit
ch_version_introduced: '2.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

a community template for setting up high\-quality event tracing and simulating certain events using SysmonSimulator, another great Open Source initiative. ## Environment [\#](/blog/sending-windows-event-logs-to-clickhouse-with-fluent-bit#environment) - Microsoft Windows Server 2022 - Fluent Bit v2\.0\.6 - Sysmon v14\.13 - SysmonSimulator v0\.2

For ClickHouse, we recommend trying our serverless [ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp), which has a generous free trial that is sufficient to follow this blog post. The Developer service should be sufficient for the examples in this post. Alternatively, all instructions should be compatible with self\-managed versions greater than 22\.6\. For building the actual visualizations, we will use Grafana Cloud, using the official [ClickHouse plugin](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-clickhouse-datasource/).

## Basics of Windows Event Logs [\#](/blog/sending-windows-event-logs-to-clickhouse-with-fluent-bit#basics-of-windows-event-logs)

Anybody that has worked with Windows knows the all\-famous Windows Event Viewer. It’s one of those standard tools you must know when you investigate problems using System, Application, or Security logs. Less well\-known is that over the years, the classic model (EVT format) has evolved to a rich ‘winevtlog.h’ (EVTX format) that now has full API support with many advanced improvements. This provides support for application and service\-specific log channels used by tools like ‘Sysmon’.

Fluent Bit is a data collector that supports this format and can help us collect helpful logs to analyze and identify potential threats.

## Detecting Security Threats With Sysmon Events [\#](/blog/sending-windows-event-logs-to-clickhouse-with-fluent-bit#detecting-security-threats-with-sysmon-events)

Besides the rich audit policies, most Security Engineers prefer using Sysmon to identify threats. [Sysmon](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/sysmon), developed by [SysInternals](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/) (which is now part of Microsoft), delivers advanced kernel capabilities provided by a device driver and a running service. Once installed with a given configuration, it will start monitoring and logging system activities, such as process creation, network connections, registry manipulation, and more. Since it smoothly integrates as a Windows Event Log channel, we can easily transport these logs with Fluent Bit into ClickHouse.

The most recent version can be downloaded [here](https://download.sysinternals.com/files/Sysmon.zip). Just extract the ZIP file in a directory, such as ‘*C:\\Tools\\Sysmon*’.

After extraction, you can start the installation with default configuration settings.

```
sysmon.exe -accepteula -i

```

### Communities bring Open Source together [\#](/blog/sending-windows-event-logs-to-clickhouse-with-fluent-bit#communities-bring-open-source-together)
