---
source: blog
url: https://aws.amazon.com/eks/
topic: saving-millions-of-dollars-by-bin-packing-clickhouse-pods-in-aws-eks
ch_version_introduced: '1.26'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

autoscaler and overprovisioning (Abandoned) [\#](/blog/packing-kubernetes-pods-more-efficiently-saving-money#tuning-cluster-autoscaler-and-overprovisioning-abandoned) One obvious approach is to tune down the [cluster autoscaler scale\-down threshold](https://aws.github.io/aws-eks-best-practices/cluster-autoscaling/#additional-parameters). However, this means more customer pods will be evicted frequently, and this did not meet requirement \#3 (disruption to customer queries).

We also briefly considered overprovisioning the node by tuning the resource request and limit. However, overprovisioning resources can cause contention. But neither CPU contention (query being throttled) or memory contention (potentially OOM killed) is acceptable in terms of meeting our customer experience.

## Proactive packing of pods (abandoned) [\#](/blog/packing-kubernetes-pods-more-efficiently-saving-money#proactive-packing-of-pods-abandoned)

We also considered adding the annotation [cluster\-autoscaler.kubernetes.io/safe\-to\-evict](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/labels-annotations-taints/#cluster-autoscaler-kubernetes-io-safe-to-evict) to ClickHouse pods. This allows the Kubernetes cluster autoscaler to evict pods when a node utilization falls below a certain threshold. However, pod evictions can bring disruption to our customers. For example, a long\-running query will be interrupted.

We had already configured the [PodDisruptionBudget](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/disruptions/#pod-disruption-budgets) for ClickHouse servers to limit only one pod in a [StatefulSet](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/controllers/statefulset/) to be unavailable at any time. But from our experience, making a cluster autoscaler terminate some pods at a random time is still too disruptive for a stateful workload like ClickHouse.

Hence, we decided not to choose this approach.

## [Bin\-packing](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/resource-bin-packing/) pods using the MostAllocated scoring policy [\#](/blog/packing-kubernetes-pods-more-efficiently-saving-money#bin-packing-pods-using-the-mostallocated-scoring-policy)

Instead, we decided to change the kube\-scheduler (default Kubernetes scheduler) scoring policy from LeastAllocated to [MostAllocated](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/resource-bin-packing/) to pack our clusters more efficiently. This solution implements the [bin\-packing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bin_packing_problem) paradigm for our pods. Why does this help?

1. When a new pod needs to be created, the scheduler now prefers a node with a higher utilization ratio. This makes the cluster's overall utilization higher over time.
2. When old pods are terminated on a node, that node is less likely to be considered and, therefore, more likely to reach a low utilization threshold. Eventually, the cluster autoscaler can remove this node from the cluster, reducing total cost.

This policy is part of the **NodeResourcesFit** plugin that is enabled by default in Kubernetes. Once this setting is enabled, during the pod scheduling phase, Kubernetes scheduler performs the following actions:
