---
source: blog
url: https://aws.amazon.com/eks/
topic: saving-millions-of-dollars-by-bin-packing-clickhouse-pods-in-aws-eks
ch_version_introduced: '1.26'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

node from the cluster, reducing total cost. This policy is part of the **NodeResourcesFit** plugin that is enabled by default in Kubernetes. Once this setting is enabled, during the pod scheduling phase, Kubernetes scheduler performs the following actions:

- First, it identifies the nodes in the cluster that have the resources available, as specified in the pod request spec. This is the "filtering phase."
- Next, it will rank the filtered nodes in descending order of their combined resource utilization (CPU and Memory). This is called the "scoring phase."
- The node picked for the pod will always be the one that can fit the pod and has the highest resource utilization.

With a solution that fits all our requirements, we decided to investigate how to specify this scheduling policy in EKS.

## EKS settings support for kube\-scheduler customization [\#](/blog/packing-kubernetes-pods-more-efficiently-saving-money#eks-settings-support-for-kube-scheduler-customization)

As we started investigating how to set this policy for the kube\-scheduler in EKS, we discovered that EKS does not have support for customizing the kube\-scheduler via EKS settings/config. This [feature has been requested](https://github.com/aws/containers-roadmap/issues/1468) by a number of users, but there is currently no indication from AWS about adding support in the near future. Since we couldn’t do this through EKS settings, we opted to set up a custom scheduler ourselves in our Kubernetes cluster.

## Custom scheduler with `most-allocated` scoring policy [\#](/blog/packing-kubernetes-pods-more-efficiently-saving-money#custom-scheduler-with-most-allocated-scoring-policy)

In order to set up a custom scheduler for pods in our cluster, we mainly followed the [handy guide provided by Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/configure-multiple-schedulers/). Kubernetes lets you create your own scheduler binary as well, though this was not necessary in our case, as the existing kube\-scheduler image with the `most-allocated` scoring policy satisfied our requirements. In order to create this scheduler within our cluster, we took the following steps:

1. Built and deployed the kube\-scheduler image to our container registry. We couldn’t find a public registry that hosted this image. It is not ideal for us to maintain this image, but there is no alternate solution currently.
2. Created a deployment for the scheduler, as mentioned in the [guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/extend-kubernetes/configure-multiple-schedulers/). In the configMap, we provided the relevant settings for the scoring strategy \- ‘MostAllocated’ along with the weights for CPU/Memory when considering the allocation. The profile section of the configMap looked like this:
