---
source: blog
url: https://aws.amazon.com/eks/
topic: saving-millions-of-dollars-by-bin-packing-clickhouse-pods-in-aws-eks
ch_version_introduced: '1.26'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

In ClickHouse Cloud, we use an [overprovisioning](https://aws.github.io/aws-eks-best-practices/cluster-autoscaling/#overprovisioning) workload recommended by the EKS cluster autoscaler. We create workloads with similar resource requirements but lower [PriorityClass](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/scheduling-eviction/pod-priority-preemption/#priorityclass). This lower priority allows the eviction of the overprovisioning pods for the ClickHouse pods.

We noticed that when overprovisioning pods use the `default-scheduler`, and ClickHouse pods use the custom scheduler, the preemption does not work. Because each scheduler only preempts the pods scheduled by itself. In this case, the cluster autoscaler also falsely thinks that scaling up is not needed. To solve this and make things more consistent, we made the overprovisioning pods also use the custom scheduler.

## Testing and rollout [\#](/blog/packing-kubernetes-pods-more-efficiently-saving-money#testing-and-rollout)

In order to ensure no performance degradation with the custom scheduler, we also conducted some pod scheduling stress tests. We created a job to continuously create pods to be scheduled by the custom scheduler. We then killed the custom scheduler pod that holds the lease lock. We observed that other scheduler standby pods quickly took over. The pod scheduling was not impacted significantly, and the throughput of scheduling was also not a concern based on our tests.

Another potential risk was the increasing of the pod cold start\-up time. Now that clusters are more packed, *in theory*, new instance creation is more likely to trigger a nodegroup scale\-up to schedule the pending pods. In order to observe this, we measured the P90 and P99 cold start\-up times to check the impact. We verified that this impact is negligible. This can be due to node provisioning for accommodating ClickHouse service does not happen frequently enough to have a big impact.

When it came to the final rollout, we still proceeded with caution:
