---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/en/2021/clickhouse-inc/
topic: clickhouse-v21-11-released
ch_version_introduced: '21.11'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

rate of small inserts concurrently and ClickHouse will automatically group them together into batches and insert it into the table automatically. Every client will get an acknowledgement that the data was inserted successfully. ## Local Interactive Mode [\#](/blog/click-house-v2111-released#local-interactive-mode)

We have added interactive mode for `clickhouse-local` so that you can just run `clickhouse-local` to get a command line ClickHouse interface without connecting to a server and process data from files and external data sources.

**How does this help our ClickHouse Users?**

What if you have an ad\-hoc use case that you want to run analytics on a local file with ClickHouse? Historically, you'd have to spin up an empty ClickHouse server and connect it to the external data source that you were interested in running the query on e.g. S3, HDFS, URL's. Now with ClickHouse Local you can just run it just like a ClickHouse Client and have the same full interactive experience without any additional overhead steps around setup and ingestion of data to try out your idea or hypothesis. Hope you enjoy!

## Executable UDFs [\#](/blog/click-house-v2111-released#executable-udfs)

Added support for executable (scriptable) user defined functions. These are UDFs that can be written in any programming language.

**How does this help our ClickHouse Users?**

We added UDFs in our 21\.10 release. Similar to our October release we're continuing to innovate around the idea of making it more user friendly to plug in tools into ClickHouse as functions. This could be you doing an ML inference in your Python script and now you can define it as a function as available in SQL. Or, what if you wanted to do a DNS lookup? You have a domain name in a ClickHouse table and want to convert to an IP address with some function. Now just plug in an external script and this will go process and convert the domain names into IP addresses.

## Predefined Connections [\#](/blog/click-house-v2111-released#predefined-connections)

Allow predefined connections to external data sources. This allows to avoid specifying credentials or addresses while using external data sources, they can be referenced by names instead.

**How does this help our ClickHouse Users?**
