---
source: blog
url: https://wandb.ai/site
topic: prototype-to-production-how-weights-biases-and-clickhouse-help-teams-scale-ai-development
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

of AI.” The emergence of new foundation models, he says, has made it easier for companies around the world, in all industries, to invest in AI capabilities and build applications that harness AI in “exciting and unexpected ways.”

However, as more teams develop AI models, there’s an expectation that they can seamlessly move these models into production to create real\-world impact. The reality, as Lukas explains, is that “AI is so easy to demo, but so hard to get into production.” In other words, for all the excitement generated by AI prototypes, most teams find it difficult to transition these models into scalable and dependable systems that deliver practical value.

“In software, we joke about the first 90 percent and the second 90 percent,” Lukas says. “In AI, you might have ten 90 percents, and even then it never makes it into production.”

Part of the problem, he says, is the gap in developer tools for GenAI operations. Traditional software development benefits from known workflows and established tools for managing code and processes — GitHub for version control, Jira for project management, Figma for design, and so on. By contrast, AI developer tools lack the same level of maturity.

When Lukas started Weights \& Biases, investors frequently asked him what makes software development different from AI development. “Software development is linear — you’re always moving forward, adding functionality and features,” he says. “AI, on the other hand, is experimental. Almost everything you try never sees the light of day. The workflow is iterative; it’s all about running experiments. When you make something better, something else always gets worse, and you have to decide how you feel about the trade\-offs.”

Unlike software development, where code represents your intellectual property, Lukas says the primary value in AI lies in “the things you learn along the way.” But without adequate tools to track, version, and manage these learnings, much of that value is lost, leaving engineering teams struggling to move forward efficiently.

## Scaling AI development [\#](/blog/weights-and-biases-scale-ai-development#scaling-ai-development)
