---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/query-complexity.md)#
topic: restrictions-on-query-complexity-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

# Restrictions on query complexity \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Settings](/docs/operations/settings)- Restrictions on query complexity
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/query-complexity.md)# Restrictions on query complexity

## Overview[​](#overview "Direct link to Overview")

As part of the [settings](/docs/operations/settings/overview), ClickHouse offers
the ability to place restrictions on query complexity. This helps protect against
potentially resource\-intensive queries, ensuring safer and more predictable
execution, particularly when using the user interface.

Almost all the restrictions only apply to `SELECT` queries, and for distributed
query processing, restrictions are applied on each server separately.

ClickHouse generally checks the restrictions only after data parts have been
fully processed, rather than checking the restrictions for each row. This can
result in a situation where restrictions are violated while the part is being
processed.

## `overflow_mode` settings[​](#overflow_mode_setting "Direct link to overflow_mode_setting")

Most restrictions also have an `overflow_mode` setting, which defines what happens
when the limit is exceeded, and can take one of two values:

- `throw`: throw an exception (default).
- `break`: stop executing the query and return the partial result, as if the
source data ran out.

## `group_by_overflow_mode` settings[​](#group_by_overflow_mode_settings "Direct link to group_by_overflow_mode_settings")

The `group_by_overflow_mode` setting also has
the value `any`:

- `any` : continue aggregation for the keys that got into the set, but do not
add new keys to the set.

## List of settings[​](#relevant-settings "Direct link to List of settings")

The following settings are used for applying restrictions on query complexity.

NoteRestrictions on the "maximum amount of something" can take a value of `0`,
which means that it is "unrestricted".
