---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/worlds-fastest-json-querying-tool-clickhouse-local
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-november-2022-the-purifying-effects-of-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '208231.24594106'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

feedback! Take a look at the [release webinar slides](https://presentations.clickhouse.com/release_22.10/) and the [recording](https://youtu.be/sz9SES5-mdc), and please upgrade unless you want to stay on a Long Term Support (LTS) release. ## Query of the Month: The purifying effects of obfuscation [\#](/blog/newsletter_2022_november#query-of-the-month-the-purifying-effects-of-obfuscation)

Useful datasets are like large diamonds: hard to find but very valuable. And when you have some, you typically lock them in a secure space \- in a vault or in a database. Unfortunately, the best datasets often contain sensitive information about customers, proprietary data, or trade secrets. And so they only ever live in production databases, and even for internal development and testing purposes, other data has to be used, often synthetically generated test data.

However, synthetic data is often flawed. It usually does not accurately represent what the real data is like. Characteristics like the cardinality of dimensions, the range and distribution of numeric values, and the proportion of empty values will often differ significantly from the actual data. This is a major problem for developing and testing queries that scan a large amount of data to arrive at a result \- exactly what ClickHouse is good at.

For example, for a query that contains `GROUP BY dimension`, there is a big difference in memory usage and performance between `dimension` having a cardinality in the hundreds or billions. A `GROUP BY` will be calculated using a hash map with one key for each distinct value. A few hundred key\-value pairs will easily fit into memory, and the query will be lightning fast \- whereas for billions of values, the hash map will have to be offloaded to disk resulting in a much slower query, or the query might even fail.

So how do we develop and test with data that is close to the actual data in characteristics (such as the cardinality of values in columns) \- but is not the actual data?

One answer is obfuscation. And ClickHouse actually ships with a built\-in obfuscator, either `clickhouse-obfuscator` (on Linux) or `clickhouse obfuscator` (on Mac). Docs are [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/utilities/clickhouse-obfuscator/).

The ClickHouse Obfuscator will read a dataset as its input and produce as its output a dataset that is very similar in characteristics but won’t contain the same actual values. Let’s look at how it works using the [UK Property Price Paid](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/uk-price-paid/) dataset.
