---
source: blog
url: https://docs.goldsky.com/mirror/sources/subgraphs
topic: goldsky-a-gold-standard-architecture-with-clickhouse-and-redpanda
ch_version_introduced: '1.17'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

costs associated with direct use of this data through BigQuery, we aim for this proof of concept to serve as a valuable illustration of the efficiency achieved when leveraging ClickHouse and Goldsky for blockchain analytics.** ## Goldsky [\#](/blog/clickhouse-redpanda-architecture-with-goldsky#goldsky)

Goldsky provides crypto data as a service, delivering data from more than 15 of the most popular blockchains to customers' own datastores. This includes blockchain indexing, subgraphs, and data streaming pipelines. By providing the ability for developers to create simple APIs, this data can be exposed in powerful dApps (decentralized applications) without the complexity of needing to concern themselves with the required infrastructure, data management and logic to extract useful information. Typically, the former involves a remote procedure call (RPC) providers and APIs which are complex and challenging to model.

By providing a “data\-pipelines\-as\-a\-service,” Goldsky allows blockchain data to be filtered and transformed by customer\-specific logic, such that only a specific subset of a blockchain is delivered to a smart API endpoint. While users usually expose API endpoints on the data delivered by Goldsky, ClickHouse is increasingly seen as the preferred analytics database should more complex querying be required. In this case, Goldsky needs to deliver a blockchain dataset to a dedicated ClickHouse (often Cloud) cluster. This dataset will often be a subset of a specific blockchain e.g. all blocks pertaining to a specific address or the balance of a wallet. As well as filtering, or only starting the stream from a specific time point, users additionally need the capability to pre\-aggregate data prior to insertion to ClickHouse.

While these processing capabilities are all built into the Goldsky service, this presented a challenge from a data engineering perspective \- how to efficiently stream the same TiB datasets to potentially 10s of thousands of ClickHouse instances while providing customer\-independent processing that may target only subsets.

## Architecture [\#](/blog/clickhouse-redpanda-architecture-with-goldsky#architecture)
