---
source: blog
url: https://docs.goldsky.com/mirror/sources/subgraphs
topic: goldsky-a-gold-standard-architecture-with-clickhouse-and-redpanda
ch_version_introduced: '1.17'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

here is infinite - Keeping this data up\-to\-date such that users can enjoy access to the latest transactions and blocks - Ensuring the data can be delivered with minimal end\-to\-end latency to any number of destinations, including ClickHouse

Since all blockchain data is inherently time\-series, ordered, and immutable, and with prior experience of Kafka, the Goldsky team identified Redpanda as the preferred Kafka implementation. The principal motivation behind this choice was its [tiered storage architecture](https://docs.redpanda.com/current/manage/tiered-storage/). This allows data to be retained cost\-efficiently on object storage while still delivering data at GiB/sec to downstream destinations, rather than paying for hardware that's not required in traditional Kafka shared\-nothing architectures. When combined with a high\-level of durability, verified by recent [Jepsen tests](https://redpanda.com/blog/redpanda-official-jepsen-report-and-analysis), this feature specifically aligns with the access patterns typical for Goldsky i.e. more recent blocks are of principal interest and data needs to be streamed in sequential order.

For more details on Goldsky’s choice of Redpanda, we recommend the blog ["How Goldsky democratizes streaming data for Web3 developers with Redpanda"](https://redpanda.com/blog/democratize-streaming-data-web3-goldsky-redpanda).

### Apache Flink for processing [\#](/blog/clickhouse-redpanda-architecture-with-goldsky#apache-flink-for-processing)

To satisfy their user requirement to be able to filter and transform data, Goldsky utilize Apache Flink® \- exposing FlinkSQL to their users. While post transformations are simple e.g. filtering data to a specific contract, Flink provides more complex stream processing capabilities such as instream Joins, TopN counts and even [pattern recognition](https://nightlies.apache.org/flink/flink-docs-release-1.17/docs/dev/table/sql/queries/match_recognize/) if required. These features are provided while still maintaining high insertion performance to ClickHouse, with rates reaching 500k events/sec.

For more details on Goldsky’s choice of Flink, we recommend the blog [“Using Changelogs and Streams to Solve Blockchain Data Challenges”](https://goldsky.com/blog/changelogs-streams-blockchain-data), especially with respect to how blockchain reorgs can be efficiently handled.

### ClickHouse for analytics [\#](/blog/clickhouse-redpanda-architecture-with-goldsky#clickhouse-for-analytics)

While ClickHouse is not the only database users request events to be delivered to, it represents the principal choice once query analytics are needed to be performed on large datasets. ClickHouse’s application to the field of crypto analytics is well known, with users exploiting its unrivaled query performance, cost efficiency and enhanced SQL for datasets, which often reach the TiB. Querying blockchain data with SQL is intuitive and popularized by services such as [dune](https://dune.com/docs/data-tables/raw/solana/blocks/).

### ClickHouse for backfills [\#](/blog/clickhouse-redpanda-architecture-with-goldsky#clickhouse-for-backfills)
