---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dimensional_modeling
topic: clickhouse-cloud-fast-updatable-lookups-with-the-join-table-engine
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

from them. This means each update will create a new numbered .bin file. There is no background compaction process — files are never merged automatically. Over time, this leads to performance degradation. ## Implementation in ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/join-table-engine#implementation-in-clickhouse-cloud)

**These issues have been solved very elegantly in ClickHouse Cloud.** In ClickHouse Cloud, a `Join` table is actually transparently implemented as a `SharedJoin` table with a MergeTree family backing table:

- for `ALL` join, this is a `MergeTree` table
- for `ANY` join, a `ReplacingMergeTree` table.

You can find these tables in `system.tables`. The naming convention for the underlying table is `.inner_id.SharedJoin.<uuid of Join table>`.

> **Note:** there is a setting [`join_any_take_last_row`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/settings/settings#join_any_take_last_row) that is **not** honored

The in\-memory table is populated from the persistent (underlying) table using a query (which includes `FINAL` in the case of `ANY` join) on insert to Join table (with filter to select only newest data) and on table load on startup.

## Example: Data Enrichment [\#](/blog/join-table-engine#example-data-enrichment)

Probably the most meaningful use case is enrichment / dimensional modeling with an `ANY LEFT` join. To illustrate this specific case, let's take the example from the ClickHouse [docs](https://clickhouse.com/docs/engines/table-engines/special/join#example) and modify it a bit:

```

```
1-- Create the fact table and insert some data
2CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE id_val (
3    `id` UInt32,
4    `val` UInt32
5) ENGINE = MergeTree
6ORDER BY (id);
7
8INSERT INTO id_val VALUES
9    (1, 11), (2, 12), (3, 13);
10
11-- Creating the right-side Join table:
12CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE id_val_join (
13    `id` UInt32,
14    `val` UInt8
15) ENGINE = Join(ANY, LEFT, id);
16
17-- Insert some values
18INSERT INTO id_val_join VALUES
19    (1, 21), (1, 22), (3, 23);
20
21-- Enrichment query
22SELECT *
23FROM id_val
24ANY LEFT JOIN id_val_join USING (id);
```

```

```
   ┌─id─┬─val─┬─id_val_join.val─┐
1. │  1 │  11 │              22 │
2. │  2 │  12 │               0 │
3. │  3 │  13 │              23 │
   └────┴─────┴─────────────────┘

```

Now, let's find out what happens in the `Join` table and in the underlying table when we upsert an entry for key `1`.

```

```
1-- And another insert
2INSERT INTO id_val_join VALUES (1,42);
```

```

Look up the underlying table:

```

```
1SELECT database, name, uuid, engine
2FROM system.tables
3WHERE name = 'id_val_join'
4FORMAT Vertical;
```

```
