---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dimensional_modeling
topic: clickhouse-cloud-fast-updatable-lookups-with-the-join-table-engine
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

for key `1`. ``` ``` 1-- And another insert 2INSERT INTO id_val_join VALUES (1,42); ``` ``` Look up the underlying table: ``` ``` 1SELECT database, name, uuid, engine 2FROM system.tables 3WHERE name = 'id_val_join' 4FORMAT Vertical; ``` ```

```
database:                         default
name:                             id_val_join
uuid:                             64f169ee-977d-46c2-b067-580fdf8c1d4b
engine:                           SharedJoin

```

The `Join` table deduplicates and keeps the latest entry only:

```

```
1SELECT * FROM id_val_join;
```

```

```
   ┌─id─┬─val─┐
1. │  3 │  23 │
2. │  1 │  42 │
   └────┴─────┘

```

Constructing the underlying `ReplacingMergeTree` table from the UUID, we see this one retains the duplicates until they are merged out:

```

```
1SELECT * FROM default.`.inner_id.SharedJoin.64f169ee-977d-46c2-b067-580fdf8c1d4b`;
```

```

```
   ┌─id─┬─val─┐
1. │  1 │  22 │
2. │  3 │  23 │
3. │  1 │  42 │
   └────┴─────┘

```

Finally, running the enrichment query again, we see how the updated dimension entry reflects in the result:

```

```
1SELECT *
2FROM id_val
3ANY LEFT JOIN id_val_join USING (id);
```

```

```
   ┌─id─┬─val─┬─id_val_join.val─┐
1. │  1 │  11 │              42 │
2. │  2 │  12 │               0 │
3. │  3 │  13 │              23 │
   └────┴─────┴─────────────────┘

```

Every time you insert a new row or a set of rows:

- The data is inserted into the underlying `ReplacingMergeTree` table.
- The in\-memory representation is updated on insert to the Join table (with a filter on block ID to select only newest data) and on table load on startup.
- This query also applies `FINAL`, so the in\-memory `Join` table will never have duplicates.
- The `join_any_take_last_row` is ignored. You always get the latest entry.

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/join-table-engine#conclusion)

- The `Join` table engine in ClickHouse provides a precomputed hash map that can be used to speed up JOINs.
- Like a dictionary, a `Join` table is kept in memory. But it is backed by a persistence layer (saved in files).
- In ClickHouse Cloud, `Join` tables are automatically clustered and backed by full `MergeTree` tables, making them suitable for frequent updates.
- In particular, for dimensional modeling in ClickHouse Cloud, use `Join(ANY, LEFT, id)` — upserting, deduplication, and data compaction is automatically handled by the underlying `ReplacingMergeTree`!
### Get started today
