---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: clickhouse-joins-under-the-hood-hash-join-parallel-hash-join-grace-hash-join
ch_version_introduced: '1.00'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

0 rows in set. Elapsed: 5.063 sec. Processed 101.00 million rows, 3.67 GB (19.95 million rows/s., 724.03 MB/s.) ``` We can query the [query\_log](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/system-tables/query_log) [system table](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-debugging-issues-with-system-tables) in order to check runtime statistics for the last two query runs:

```

SELECT
    query,
    formatReadableTimeDelta(query_duration_ms / 1000) AS query_duration,
    formatReadableSize(memory_usage) AS memory_usage,
    formatReadableQuantity(read_rows) AS read_rows,
    formatReadableSize(read_bytes) AS read_data
FROM clusterAllReplicas(default, system.query_log)
WHERE (type = 'QueryFinish') AND hasAll(tables, ['imdb_large.actors', 'imdb_large.roles'])
ORDER BY initial_query_start_time DESC
LIMIT 2
FORMAT Vertical;

Row 1:
──────
query:          SELECT *
                FROM actors AS a
                JOIN roles AS r ON a.id = r.actor_id
                FORMAT `Null`
                SETTINGS join_algorithm = 'hash'
query_duration: 5 seconds
memory_usage:   8.95 GiB
read_rows:      101.00 million
read_data:      3.41 GiB

Row 2:
──────
query:          SELECT *
                FROM roles AS r
                JOIN actors AS a ON r.actor_id = a.id
                FORMAT `Null`
                SETTINGS join_algorithm = 'hash'
query_duration: 0 seconds
memory_usage:   716.44 MiB
read_rows:      101.00 million
read_data:      3.41 GiB


```

As expected, the join query with the smaller `actors` table on the right\-hand side consumes significantly less memory than the join query with the larger `roles` table on the right\-hand side.

Note that the indicated peak memory usages of 8\.95 GiB and 716\.44 MiB, are larger than the uncompressed sizes of 2\.63 GiB and 21\.81 MiB for the respective right\-hand side tables for the two query runs. The reason for this is that the hash table size is initially chosen and [dynamically](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/23.3/src/Common/HashTable/HashTable.h#L234) [increased](https://godbolt.org/z/cKjaTe3Mf) based on the types of the join key columns and in multiples of a specific internal hash table buffer size. The `memory_usage` metric counts the overall memory reserved for the hash table, though it may not be completely filled.

For the execution of both queries, ClickHouse reads the same amount of total rows (and data):
100 million rows from the roles table \+ 1 million rows from the actors table. However, the join query with the larger roles table on the right\-hand side is five times slower. This is because the default hash join is not thread\-safe for inserting the right table's rows into the hash table. Therefore the fill stage for the hash table runs in a single thread. We can double\-check this by introspecting the actual query pipeline.

### Query pipeline [\#](/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-hash-joins-part2#query-pipeline-1)
