---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/order-by.md)#
topic: order-by-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

in RAM. ## Optimization of Data Reading[​](#optimization-of-data-reading "Direct link to Optimization of Data Reading") If `ORDER BY` expression has a prefix that coincides with the table sorting key, you can optimize the query by using the [optimize\_read\_in\_order](/docs/operations/settings/settings#optimize_read_in_order) setting.

When the `optimize_read_in_order` setting is enabled, the ClickHouse server uses the table index and reads the data in order of the `ORDER BY` key. This allows to avoid reading all data in case of specified [LIMIT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/limit). So queries on big data with small limit are processed faster.

Optimization works with both `ASC` and `DESC` and does not work together with [GROUP BY](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/group-by) clause and [FINAL](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/from#final-modifier) modifier.

When the `optimize_read_in_order` setting is disabled, the ClickHouse server does not use the table index while processing `SELECT` queries.

Consider disabling `optimize_read_in_order` manually, when running queries that have `ORDER BY` clause, large `LIMIT` and [WHERE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/where) condition that requires to read huge amount of records before queried data is found.

Optimization is supported in the following table engines:

- [MergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree) (including [materialized views](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/view#materialized-view)),
- [Merge](/docs/engines/table-engines/special/merge),
- [Buffer](/docs/engines/table-engines/special/buffer)

In `MaterializedView`\-engine tables the optimization works with views like `SELECT ... FROM merge_tree_table ORDER BY pk`. But it is not supported in the queries like `SELECT ... FROM view ORDER BY pk` if the view query does not have the `ORDER BY` clause.

## ORDER BY Expr WITH FILL Modifier[​](#order-by-expr-with-fill-modifier "Direct link to ORDER BY Expr WITH FILL Modifier")

This modifier also can be combined with [LIMIT ... WITH TIES modifier](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/limit#limit--with-ties-modifier).

`WITH FILL` modifier can be set after `ORDER BY expr` with optional `FROM expr`, `TO expr` and `STEP expr` parameters.
All missed values of `expr` column will be filled sequentially and other columns will be filled as defaults.

To fill multiple columns, add `WITH FILL` modifier with optional parameters after each field name in `ORDER BY` section.

```
ORDER BY expr [WITH FILL] [FROM const_expr] [TO const_expr] [STEP const_numeric_expr] [STALENESS const_numeric_expr], ... exprN [WITH FILL] [FROM expr] [TO expr] [STEP numeric_expr] [STALENESS numeric_expr]
[INTERPOLATE [(col [AS expr], ... colN [AS exprN])]]

```
