---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/working-with-time-series-data-and-functions-ClickHouse
topic: building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-part-1-logs
ch_version_introduced: '29.880230118'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 18
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

c-violet-sg-87-keeper-0 │ ['c-violet-sg-87-keeper-1.c-violet-sg-87-keeper-headless.ns-violet-sg-87.svc.cluster.local'] │ │ c-violet-sg-87-keeper-0 │ ['c-violet-sg-87-keeper-2.c-violet-sg-87-keeper-headless.ns-violet-sg-87.svc.cluster.local'] │ │ c-violet-sg-87-keeper-0 │ ['c-violet-sg-87-keeper-1.c-violet-sg-87-keeper-headless.ns-violet-sg-87.svc.cluster.local'] │ └─────────────────────────┴──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘ 5 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.690 sec. Processed 18.04 million rows, 2.76 GB (26.13 million rows/s., 3.99 GB/s.) ``` ### Optimizing performance [\#](/blog/storing-log-data-in-clickhouse-fluent-bit-vector-open-telemetry#optimizing-performance)

Query performance on the data generated by the above agents will depend mainly on the ordering keys defined during table creation. These should match your typical workflows and access patterns. Ensure that the columns you typically filter by in your workflows are present in the ORDER BY table declaration. The ordering of these columns should also consider their respective cardinalities to ensure the optimal filtering algorithms can be used in ClickHouse. In most cases, order your columns in [order of increasing cardinality](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/improving-query-performance/sparse-primary-indexes/sparse-primary-indexes-multiple/#generic-exclusion-search-algorithm). For logs, this typically means placing the server or pod name first, followed by the timestamp: but again, this depends on how you plan to filter. Beyond 3\-4, columns within a key are typically not recommended and provide little value. Instead, consider alternatives for accelerating queries as discussed in the post [Supercharging your ClickHouse queries](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-faster-queries-with-projections-and-primary-indexes) and [Working with time series data in Clickhouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/working-with-time-series-data-and-functions-ClickHouse).

The Map type is prevalent in many of the schemas in this post. This type requires the values and keys to have the same type \- sufficient for Kubernetes labels. Be aware that when querying a subkey of a Map type, the entire parent column is loaded. If the map has many keys, this can incur a significant query penalty. If you need to query a specific key frequently, consider moving it into its own dedicated column at the root.

Note that we currently find the OTEL collector's default table schema and ordering key can make some queries expensive once datasets get larger, especially if your access patterns do not match the key. Users should evaluate the schema against their workflows and create their tables in advance to avoid this.

The OTEL schema provides inspiration for using partitions to manage data using TTLs. This is especially relevant to log data, where retention is typically only required for days before deletion can occur. Note that partitions can either positively or negatively impact query performance: If most queries hit a single partition, query performance improvement can improve. Conversely, if queries usually hit multiple partitions, it can result in degraded performance.
