---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

restarting due to OOMs. But the strangest revelation came when we started comparing environments. Every single case occurred in the Google Cloud Platform (GCP). Not once did it appear in AWS or Azure. ## Early investigation attempts [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#early-investigation-attempts)

In ClickHouse Cloud, we have a simple tool to collect all current stack traces from the ClickHouse server process running in the pod. It is based on `gdb`, a popular debugger on Linux. We just attach gdb to the process, gather backtraces from all the threads, and detach. We use it whenever the ClickHouse server hangs. It is invaluable in detecting deadlocks. Using this tool, we quickly gathered insights that deepened our investigation. The number of active threads was unusually high—more than a thousand, all working on either queries or some background activities. Many threads appeared to be waiting to enter critical sections, but it was not a deadlock—other threads were actively working while holding corresponding locks. Even more bizarre, many stack traces pointed to unexpected locations, such as `libunwind`, the library responsible for building stack traces required during handling exceptions.

The problem affected random pods, rendering them nearly non\-functional. They became so slow that every query sent to the server would hang indefinitely, yet the server did not restart automatically. This meant that each incident required a rapid manual restart to restore service. However, every investigation attempt was met with resistance—affected pods were so unresponsive that even basic debugging tools like `perf` and `ps aux` struggled to function. It was particularly unusual that `ps aux` itself would hang when executed. At first, we thought this was just another consequence of the extreme CPU load, but we did not yet realize that this would later turn out to be a crucial clue in unraveling the mystery.

Complicating matters, the problem was unpredictable. One day it would appear in one cluster, the next in another, with no discernible pattern. Different services were impacted at different times, making it impossible to correlate with recent deployments or changes. And with so many potential culprits—CPU spikes, high memory usage, excessive threads, too many exceptions \- it was difficult to determine what was a symptom and what was the root cause.

## Might it be a system call with unexpected consequences [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#might-it-be-a-system-call-with-unexpected-consequences)
