---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

to the mappings and slowing down the process due to waiting on `mmap_lock`. When many threads are running while the real\-time profiler is enabled, this could lead to contention and overall performance degradation due to slow memory allocations.

It was [fixed](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/60468) later, and now our `libunwind` does not use `mincore` anymore. After disabling it, we assumed the issue was resolved. However, we missed one crucial detail. The performance degradations related to the profiler had only been observed on GCP instances, not AWS. At the time, we didn't know why and assumed it was simply due to different workload patterns used by new customers running ClickHouse Cloud on GCP. With the profiler disabled, we were confident that this was no longer a factor. Yet, months later, a completely different issue emerged that was also GCP\-specific, telling us that we had missed something important.

## Digging deeper into mincore syscalls [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#digging-deeper-into-mincore-syscalls)

I was responsible for investigating the root cause of the previous issue with the profiler and started to work on the current issue as well. Firstly, I checked `mincore` syscalls—how many of them were happening and how slow they were. Since we had previously seen stack traces revealing a lot of stack unwinding, it was natural to suspect that these syscalls might be involved.

Here is how you could measure the duration of any syscall using [`bpftrace`](https://github.com/bpftrace/bpftrace/blob/master/man/adoc/bpftrace.adoc): a tool that helps you run eBPF code inside the kernel to trace what it does and get useful insights into the kernel behavior.

```

```
tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_mincore /pid==$1/ {
    @start[tid] = nsecs;
}

tracepoint:syscalls:sys_exit_mincore /pid==$1 && @start[tid]/ {
    @latency_us = hist((nsecs - @start[tid]) / 1000);
    delete(@start[tid]);
}
```

```

But running `bpftrace` requires privileges and cannot be done inside a standard Kubernetes pod. Instead, you should go to the node where your pod is running. From there, the easiest way to run `bpftrace` is the following (with an example of the healthy output):

```

```
# docker-bpf() { docker run -ti --rm --privileged -v /lib/modules:/lib/modules -v /sys/fs/bpf:/sys/fs/bpf -v /sys/kernel/debug:/sys/kernel/debug --pid=host quay.io/iovisor/bpftrace bpftrace "$@"; }

 # docker-bpf -e 'tracepoint:syscalls:sys_enter_mincore /pid==$1/ { @start[tid] = nsecs; } tracepoint:syscalls:sys_exit_mincore /pid==$1 && @start[tid]/ { @latency_us = hist((nsecs - @start[tid]) / 1000); delete(@start[tid]); }' $PID
Attaching 2 probes...
^C
