---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

0/0 [4000Hz cpu-clock] ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 64.28% [kernel] [k] shrink_lruvec 28.81% [kernel] [k] lru_note_cost 2.91% [kernel] [k] shrink_node 1.84% [kernel] [k] _raw_spin_unlock_irqrestore 0.38% [kernel] [k] count_shadow_nodes 0.33% [kernel] [k] shrink_page_list 0.15% [kernel] [k] _find_next_bit 0.15% [kernel] [k] __remove_mapping ``` ```

The CPU wasn’t being consumed by ClickHouse itself. Instead, all the processing power was being spent inside the kernel. A single function stood out: `shrink_lruvec`. This function is responsible for memory reclamation, but it was consuming an overwhelming amount of CPU cycles. Was the kernel itself the problem? It is important to note one difference between `gdb` and `perf`. When you stop the process with `gdb` (or internal profiler based on signals) you will never see a kernel function in your `backtrace` output, only a user\-space function. According to this, the previous `gdb` stack traces led us on the wrong path, they showed only the user\-space part of the full stack trace. With 100% samples hitting the kernel instead of user\-space code this leads to complete nonsense.

We still weren’t sure. Was this a cause or a side effect? Was ClickHouse simply pushing the system into memory pressure, or was the kernel behaving unexpectedly? Adding to the uncertainty, we had only managed to get `perf` working once. Maybe that particular incident was different in some way, or maybe we had stumbled upon a key factor without realizing it. This required another confirmation before we could arrive at any conclusions.

## Providing a runbook to investigate the issue [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#providing-a-runbook-to-investigate-the-issue)

The issue had been occurring sporadically for five months, appearing and disappearing across random GCP instances, eluding every effort to understand it. To check any new hypothesis we made a note for on\-call engineers about steps to perform if the problem reappeared and waited for a few days or sometimes a week for it to reoccur.

Desperate for answers, I compiled a runbook covering every diagnostic method at our disposal—`dmesg`, eBPF\-based kernel stack tracing, `pidstat`, `mpstat`, `perf`, even `sar` and `iostat` \- anything that might provide new insights. The approach was inspired by Brendan Gregg’s well\-known [60\-Second Linux Performance Analysis](https://www.brendangregg.com/blog/2015-12-03/linux-perf-60s-video.html), as any degraded service required rapid assessment. The goal was to quickly gather critical data without further impacting customers. It wasn’t long before the problem reappeared, and this time, we were ready.
