---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

Instead, we decided to focus on understanding and fixing the root cause. ## A deeper dive into the kernel using bpftrace [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#a-deeper-dive-into-the-kernel-using-bpftrace) Dealing with kernel bugs is never straightforward, but there are some common strategies engineers can follow.

First, gathering kernel stack traces using tools like `bpftrace` or `perf` is crucial to identifying bottlenecks. This step was already done. Tools based on eBPF are particularly powerful, not only for identifying bottlenecks but also for understanding what the kernel is doing and why. These tools allow engineers to trace almost any component in the kernel, from system calls and memory management to process scheduling and network activity, helping to understand the exact reasons behind the kernel's behavior.

Second, when analyzing a kernel stack trace, look for trace points in the kernel that might provide useful insights. In our case, we knew page reclaiming consumes all the CPU. To reclaim the page the kernel should first scan it using the `vmscan` subsystem. It has a few tracepoints:

```
# bpftrace -l 'tracepoint:vmscan:*'
tracepoint:vmscan:mm_vmscan_direct_reclaim_begin
tracepoint:vmscan:mm_vmscan_direct_reclaim_end
tracepoint:vmscan:mm_vmscan_lru_shrink_inactive
tracepoint:vmscan:mm_vmscan_lru_shrink_active
tracepoint:vmscan:mm_vmscan_writepage
tracepoint:vmscan:mm_vmscan_wakeup_kswapd
```

Kernel tracepoints have arguments that could be easily accessed from `bpftrace` scripts. For example, here is the script that collects the duration of every reclaiming procedure and also outputs their results: how many pages were reclaimed, what were the input parameters of the reclaiming procedure, etc.

```

```
tracepoint:vmscan:mm_vmscan_memcg_reclaim_begin /pid == $1/ {
    printf("%-8d %-8d %-8d %-16s mm_vmscan_memcg_reclaim_begin  order=%-10d gfp_flags=%-10ld\n",
        (nsecs - @epoch) / 1000000,
        pid,
        tid,
        comm,
        args.order,
        args.gfp_flags
    );
    @memcg_begin[tid] = nsecs
}

tracepoint:vmscan:mm_vmscan_memcg_reclaim_end /pid == $1/ {
    $elapsed = -1;
    if (@memcg_begin[tid] > 0) {
        $elapsed = nsecs - @memcg_begin[tid];
        @mm_vmscan_memcg_reclaim_ns = hist($elapsed);
        @memcg_begin[tid] = 0;
    }
    printf("%-8d %-8d %-8d %-16s mm_vmscan_memcg_reclaim_end    nr_reclaimed=%-10ld elapsed_ns=%-10ld\n",
        (nsecs - @epoch) / 1000000,
        pid,
        tid,
        comm,
        args.nr_reclaimed,
        $elapsed
    );
}
```

```

Below are the results that I obtained upon running this script against an unresponsive server process. For example, for one of the threads (note the first column is time in milliseconds), it means that it spent most of its time inside a reclaim before reentering another reclaim almost immediately after finishing the previous one. Also note that the number of reclaimed pages is not very large, although the procedure takes 1\-4 seconds every time:
