---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

new region with a newer Kubernetes version and migrating workloads, a non\-trivial task. While running a fully custom kernel image was theoretically possible, it would no longer be COS, which was not an acceptable solution for our environment.

Even if an upgrade had been feasible, there was still uncertainty regarding whether it would resolve the issue. We assumed that kernel 5\.10 was unaffected, as we did not observe the problem on AWS, but there was no guarantee that kernel 6\.1 would be free from the bug. Ideally, support would have provided insights on whether newer versions were affected. However, at that stage, they were still investigating, and we had no confirmation on when (or if) a fix was available.

## Creating a reproducible test case for the issue [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#creating-a-reproducible-test-case-for-the-issue)

To fully understand and reliably trigger the problem, I experimented with multiple approaches based on what I knew at the time. I tried different stress patterns, varying memory access behaviors, and exploring thread contention scenarios. In ClickHouse Cloud, we disable swap and use [mlock](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man2/mlock.2.html) to lock the binary in memory, preventing it from being paged out and avoiding reclaiming penalties. While we generally avoid memory\-mapped files in most scenarios, completely eliminating the use of the Linux page cache remains challenging.

Any I/O your process performs, even reading configuration files, results in a page being cached by the kernel’s page cache. After numerous failed attempts at reproducing, I started tinkering with memory\-mapped files—this led to a breakthrough!

Although not used in production, memory\-mapped files are a simple way to create file\-backed pages to reclaim. I developed a [small C\+\+ program](https://github.com/serxa/stress_memcg) that reproduced the issue in 100% of the cases within a one\-minute runtime. The program runs inside a Docker container with 4 CPUs and 4 GB of memory. It follows a two\-phase execution pattern:

1. First Phase (0\-30 seconds):
	- Spawns 1,000 threads, each writing 1,000 files (totaling 4GB).
	- These files are then memory\-mapped and continuously iterated over in sequential order.
2. Second Phase (after 30 seconds):
	- Spawns another 1,000 threads that allocate anonymous memory.
	- These threads access memory randomly, triggering page faults.

Once the second batch of threads started running, we observed the following system behaviors, matching our production issue:
