---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

excessive `mmap_lock` contention. However, some mysteries remained: - Why did `mmap_lock` occasionally last for extremely long periods (e.g., 2 hours) in rare cases? - Why was `shrink_lruvec` taking an abnormally long time specifically on GCP but not AWS?

Running the test case in different environments allowed us to verify which setups were affected by the bug. AWS Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) uses its own Amazon Linux 2 (kernel 5\.10\) or Amazon Linux 2023 (kernel 6\.1\), and both kernels showed no signs of the issue. I shared the code with Google Support, and they checked that the Container\-Optimized OS exhibited the issue in versions COS 101 (5\.10\), 105 (5\.15\), and 109 (6\.1\), but it was not present in COS 113 (6\.1\). In Azure, we use Azure Linux based on 5\.15 and the test case suggested it should trigger the bug, but we never saw it in a production environment.

> As you can see, all Kubernetes providers use their forks of Linux that differ from one another and the vanilla kernel. This highlights the complexity of debugging such issues, as the same kernel version can behave differently depending on the distribution. Although all major cloud providers open\-source their forks, the kernel usually has patches and may be built with an unusual configuration.

## Understanding page reclaiming in Linux [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#understanding-page-reclaiming-in-linux)

To understand the issue we encountered, it helps to first explain how Linux manages memory and reclaims pages when under pressure. Pages in Linux are organized into Least Recently Used ([LRU](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cache_replacement_policies#LRU)) lists. There are two kinds of pages that require separate lists: anonymous memory (such as heap and stack memory allocations) and file\-backed memory (page cache, mmap files, binaries). Note that swap is disabled in the ClickHouse Cloud, thus, anonymous memory cannot be reclaimed.
