---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 18
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

There is also a file showing the total size of every LRU list in bytes: ``` ``` ==> memory.stat <== cache 4001792000 rss 128729088 mapped_file 4001792000 inactive_anon 128729088 active_anon 0 inactive_file 2411884544 active_file 1589776384 unevictable 0 ``` ```

The interesting thing I observed when the issue was occurring was that none of the values were changing besides `inactive_file` and `active_file`. It looked like the `cgroup` was completely frozen, doing nothing but reclaiming.

In Linux, page reclaiming is handled by the **vmscan** subsystem, which is responsible for freeing memory when needed. There are two main types of vmscan operations:

- **Asynchronous reclaim**: Triggered by system\-wide memory pressure, handled by the `kswapd` kernel thread. It proactively reclaims memory if memory\-pressure is present and is not designed to enforce `cgroup` memory limits. Note that there is no asynchronous reclaiming for cgroups.
- **Synchronous reclaim**: Triggered when a specific `cgroup` exceeds its memory limit (memcg reclaim) or system\-wide memory pressure is very high (direct reclaim). It is handled in the context of the process that requests memory. The requesting thread stalls until enough memory is reclaimed.

No matter what type of reclaim happens, it always initiates the scan. First, the kernel scans pages in the **inactive list**. If a page has its accessed bit set, it is marked as **referenced ➀** and moved to the head of the same **inactive list** instead of being immediately promoted. On a subsequent scan, if the page is accessed again, it is then moved to the **active list ➁**, meaning it was recently used and should not be reclaimed. Pages from the inactive list which are not accessed are reclaimed ➃ during vmscan. If during the scan there were no inactive pages to reclaim, then vmscan inspects active pages and can deactivate them ➂ regardless of the accessed bit. Note that every time a page is scanned, the kernel resets its accessed bit regardless of the page state.
