---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 20
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

new readers are blocked until the writer acquires the lock, leading to a situation where a single reader monopolizes `mmap_lock`. Generally, `mmap_lock` is acquired for reading during page faults and for writing during operations like `mmap` or `munmap`.

The lock was held for 564 wall\-clock seconds, yet the actual CPU execution time was only 3\.7 seconds, meaning the thread was competing with around 150 other threads on average. This aligns with the fact that 1000 threads were scanning file memory within a container limited to 4 CPUs (an expected equal distribution is 250 threads per CPU). The thread was never preempted involuntarily; it voluntarily yielded CPU via `__cond_resched()`, which sometimes resulted in context switches, allowing other threads to run.

During this single critical section from acquire to release, the kernel scanned 1,093,267 pages (\~4\.27 GB) in an effort to reclaim memory for the `cgroup`. However, only 32 pages ⓸ were successfully reclaimed. The rest were either retained in the inactive LRU list ⓵ or moved to the active list ⓶.

I confirmed that the kernel was moving pages around the inactive and active lists, due to the way Linux handles memory management. Scans are never done before the process hits the limit, and because a page must be scanned at least twice before it can be reclaimed, we have to scan all the pages. Whether a page is moved to the active list or reclaimed depends on whether it is accessed in between scans.

The evidence was clear when I compared different events. In the first scan, we see a high count of cases where pages remain in the inactive LRU list ⓵. In the second scan, many of these pages were promoted ⓶, meaning they were accessed in between scans. There was a 3\-minute delay between the first and second scans, allowing background threads to access almost all pages at least once. This resulted in nearly all pages being activated. The reclaiming process only stops when it finds something to reclaim. If it does not succeed then OOM is triggered, but in our case, it did succeed and reclaimed 32 pages. This finally explains why there was no OOM.

## What can be done to fix the issue [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#what-can-be-done-to-fix-the-issue)
