---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 21
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

If it does not succeed then OOM is triggered, but in our case, it did succeed and reclaimed 32 pages. This finally explains why there was no OOM. ## What can be done to fix the issue [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#what-can-be-done-to-fix-the-issue)

While we now understand what’s going on inside the kernel, it seems that the whole machinery used by Linux is not good enough to deal with this extreme case. It seems the kernel memory management capabilities need improvement or some rework. And indeed, we know that this kernel bug does not reproduce in newer kernels. Why is that?

The easiest way to unravel the reason is to repeat the same experiment on the healthy kernel and compare the results. After going through the same procedure of checking statistics per acquire\-release cycle I found that in a healthy kernel, two things are different.

The first one is that `mmap_lock` is no longer held during reclaiming procedures. This obviously wrong behavior has been fixed: `mmap_lock` is released before the new kernel starts reclaiming pages. Everything suggests that Amazon Linux 2 has such a fix, but direct observation in the production environment is impossible because it is based on the kernel 5\.10 \- which does not have the vmscan tracepoints used above.

The second one is that newer kernels are using another process for reclaiming. A significant change in memory management is the introduction of [Multi\-Gen LRU (MGLRU)](https://docs.kernel.org/mm/multigen_lru.html), a complete redesign of the LRU\-based page reclaim mechanism. It was introduced in Linux kernel 6\.1 and since then more and more distributions have enabled it by default. I decided to give it a try and enabled this feature. And it turned out to be the cure for COS 109!

If your distribution was built with `CONFIG_LRU_GEN` you could [enable](https://docs.kernel.org/admin-guide/mm/multigen_lru.html) it as easy as:

```

```
echo y >/sys/kernel/mm/lru_gen/enabled
cat /sys/kernel/mm/lru_gen/enabled
0x0007
```

```

It takes effect immediately without requiring a server restart. We verified that it does not cause any performance degradation in ClickHouse Cloud and have enabled it across the entire GCP fleet. Everything went smoothly, and the issue did not reappear for a week. I also gave a brief presentation to the team, explaining my findings and the fix. This story is finally over after 8 months of investigations with a simple and easy to apply fix.
