---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 22
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

not reappear for a week. I also gave a brief presentation to the team, explaining my findings and the fix. This story is finally over after 8 months of investigations with a simple and easy to apply fix.

At least, I thought this way. Until the same alert happened again!

## One final issue [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#one-final-issue)

I was disappointed, but I had to analyze the issue once more. What I found was entirely different—a new bug causing almost the same behavior. The CPU was throttled, running only the kernel code. It was reclaiming memory again, but this time, the reclaiming logic was fundamentally different: it was MGLRU. Tools like `perf` and `ps` were working just fine without any hangups. And as I later checked `shrink_lruvec` had very few calls to `mmap_lock`, with most not requiring this lock.

Realizing I was facing an entirely new situation, I had to start from scratch. I began with CPU profiling:

```

```
55.47% [kernel] [k] _raw_spin_unlock_irq
12.05% [kernel] [k] _raw_spin_unlock_irqrestore
```

```

This issue suggested some kind of spinlock eating all the CPU instead of shrink\_lruvec. This was unexpected. Further investigation took a few weeks because the issue was happening completely random and my earlier code to reproduce was useless for this particular case.

Although not everything was wrong. The good news is that with MGLRU, alerts for the issue were much less frequent. After investigating a few more cases I managed to find a clue.

I obtained kernel stack traces again and the most common one was the following:

```

```
#0  _raw_spin_unlock_irq  
#1  evict_folios        
#2  shrink_lruvec
#3  shrink_node
#4  do_try_to_free_pages
#5  try_to_free_mem_cgroup_pages
#6  try_charge_memcg
#7  charge_memcg
#8  __mem_cgroup_charge
#9  __filemap_add_folio
#10 filemap_add_folio
#11 page_cache_ra_unbounded
#12 do_sync_mmap_readahead
#13 filemap_fault
#14 __do_fault
#15 handle_mm_fault
#16 do_user_addr_fault
#17 exc_page_fault
#18 asm_exc_page_fault
```

```

Rebuilding the reverse flamegraph (frame \#0 is at the bottom), we can see there are a few paths leading to this spinlock and they all are very similar:
