---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: the-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 24
total_chunks_in_doc: 25
---

3 seconds there were at least 138 threads active. 84% of stacktraces have `evict_folios` frame according to the flamegraph, so it is very likely that more than 100 threads are constantly trying to do something with the spinlock.

A week after this investigation, Google Support advised us to enable MGLRU but pointed out that it might not resolve the problem completely. Also, there is now a [public issue](https://issuetracker.google.com/363324206), created for the slow page reclaim problem in COS 105\. I shared our findings with them and the case was closed. I see no activity on fixing the kernel, so there are two options left. Either upgrade to a newer kernel or add automation to detect such livelocks and restart pods. For now, we have created liveness detection and restart systems. If you are using cgroups v2, there are [tools](https://facebookmicrosites.github.io/psi/docs/overview) that could help you do something similar.

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/a-case-of-the-vanishing-cpu-a-linux-kernel-debugging-story#conclusion)

Kernel bugs are notoriously difficult to handle. Identifying them is a challenge—your go\-to tools might fail, like `ps aux` and `perf` hanging, or they might mislead you, like `gdb` backtraces that never reveal kernel stack frames. Fixing kernel bugs is an even greater challenge, especially for those of us who aren't kernel developers. I'm not a kernel developer. But the software we create always runs on top of an operating system, and understanding how the kernel works is crucial.

Even if you identify the issue, rolling out kernel fixes presents another hurdle. In managed Kubernetes environments, you're often tied to a specific kernel version that can't be upgraded independently.

Kernel bugs will always exist—after all, the kernel is just another piece of software. The best we can do is to be prepared. This journey taught me a lot, not just about debugging but about the inner workings of the Linux kernel. I hope this story was both interesting and educational, shedding light on the tools, techniques, and insights that can help navigate similar challenges in the future.

If you’d like to try out ClickHouse Cloud on GCP (or AWS and Azure, for that matter), start your free $300 trial here: <https://clickhouse.com/cloud>

Share this postCopy URLShare on Y CombinatorShare on TwitterShare on BlueSkyShare on FacebookShare on LinkedIn### Subscribe to our newsletter

Stay informed on feature releases, product roadmap, support, and cloud offerings!Loading form...## Recent posts
