---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catalan_Atlas
topic: the-state-of-sql-based-observability
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

systems like IBM Db2 and Oracle, then with open\-source counterparts like MySQL and Postgres. This was driven by the fact that these systems play a key role as the backend and source of truth of virtually any application.

Interestingly, the OLAP term was first introduced by E. F. Codd [almost exactly 30 years ago](https://web.archive.org/web/20170808214004/https://www.minet.uni-jena.de/dbis/lehre/ss2005/sem_dwh/lit/Cod93.pdf) (even if OLAP\-like systems existed earlier). The adoption story for OLAP was different from the OLTP one since analytics systems were not always seen as a "must\-have" and, depending on the size of the datasets and the nature of the business requirements, some moderate analytics requirements can be fulfilled with OLTP systems. This meant that initially, OLAP systems were adopted only by large organizations that were able to justify the investments in proprietary solutions like Essbase or Microsoft SSAS initially or SAP Hana and Vertica more recently.

More than a decade ago, one significant catalyst for the OLAP's widespread adoption was the rise of cloud\-based data warehouses, led by the trifecta: Snowflake, Google BigQuery, and Amazon Redshift. On the open\-source front, alternatives started to emerge with Apache Druid (2011\), Apache Pinot (2013\), and ClickHouse (started in 2009, open\-sourced in 2016\). The advent of open\-source OLAP databases has contributed to lowering entry barriers, offering cost\-effective alternatives, and allowing organizations to tailor solutions to their specific needs around real\-time analytics. We detailed in [a previous post](https://clickhouse.com/blog/the-unbundling-of-the-cloud-data-warehouse) how open\-source OLAP systems are effectively enabling the real\-time data warehouse.

Since observability is a real\-time analytics\-oriented task, in this blog post, we will use the acronym SQL interchangeably to refer to the query language itself as well as its application in the OLAP use case.

## From dynamic systems to syslog and ... Twitter [\#](/blog/the-state-of-sql-based-observability#from-dynamic-systems-to-syslog-and--twitter)
