---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catalan_Atlas
topic: the-state-of-sql-based-observability
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

believe that at the current level of maturity of the ecosystem, Logging and Traces are the two pillars that are the most straightforward to address. We documented these use cases extensively in two previous posts: [logs](https://clickhouse.com/blog/storing-log-data-in-clickhouse-fluent-bit-vector-open-telemetry) and [traces](https://clickhouse.com/blog/storing-traces-and-spans-open-telemetry-in-clickhouse).

The Metrics use\-case, on the other hand, is currently dominated by Prometheus as both a dimensional data model and query language. While we see many use cases leveraging ClickHouse successfully for metrics, we believe that a turn\-key metrics experience would benefit from PromQL support in ClickHouse. Thus, [we have decided to invest in this area](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/57545).

Finally, the user considering SQL\-based observability needs to take into account the adoption question by considering the internal teams/user's skills and profiles. Even if SQL is the lingua franca of data manipulation and can be easily generated with AI assistance, observability users may come from different backgrounds (SREs, analysts, DevOps, or administrators), and depending on the type of experience you want to create for them (aka self\-service vs. pre\-prepared dashboards and alerts), the learning\-curve for SQL might or not make sense and will have to be evaluated.

## Is SQL\-based Observability applicable to my use case? [\#](/blog/the-state-of-sql-based-observability#is-sql-based-observability-applicable-to-my-use-case)

Here is a summary list of what you need to know if you want to consider SQL\-based observability for your use case (I promise it was not generated by asking ChatGPT to summarize this post):

SQL\-based observability is for you if:

- You or your team(s) are familiar with SQL (or want to learn it)
- You prefer adhering to open standards like OpenTelemetry to avoid lock\-in and achieve extensibility.
- You are willing to run an ecosystem fueled by open\-source innovation from collection to storage and visualization.
- You envision some growth to medium or large volumes of observability data under management (or even very large volumes)
- You want to be in control of the [TCO (total cost of ownership) and avoid spiraling observability costs](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/observability-tco-cost-reduction) common across many top infrastructure monitoring tools.
- You can’t or don’t want to get stuck with small data retention periods for your observability data just to manage the costs.

SQL\-based observability may not be for you if:
