---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Catalan_Atlas
topic: the-state-of-sql-based-observability
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

common across many top infrastructure monitoring tools. - You can’t or don’t want to get stuck with small data retention periods for your observability data just to manage the costs. SQL\-based observability may not be for you if:

- Learning (or generating!) SQL is not appealing to you or your team(s).
- You are looking for a packaged, end\-to\-end observability experience.
- Your observability data volumes are too small to make any significant difference (e.g. \<150 GiB) and are not forecasted to grow.
- Your use case is metrics\-heavy and needs PromQL. In that case, you can still use ClickHouse for logs and tracing beside Prometheus for metrics, unifying it at the presentation layer with Grafana.
- You prefer to wait for the ecosystem to mature more and SQL\-based observability to get more turnkey.

## Closing remarks and perspectives [\#](/blog/the-state-of-sql-based-observability#closing-remarks-and-perspectives)

With this post, we do our best to propose an honest assessment of the state of SQL\-based observability. This is based on our knowledge of the use case, the trends we see every day in the field, and our own experience running observability pipelines. We hope that these elements will help you decide for yourself and make an informed decision on whether SQL\-based observability is appropriate for you.

Also, this represents the state of this field at the time of writing (December 2023\). This space is continuously improving and expanding at a high pace, challenging some of the core requirements we discussed above. For example, ClickHouse's recent support for [inverted indexes](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/invertedindexes) is now more relevant for log exploration and search. Language support is also quickly evolving with the [recent addition](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/42510) of Kusto Query Language (KQL) to ClickHouse, a pipe\-oriented query language particularly suitable for the analysis of telemetry data and popular within the security analytics community. Finally, as discussed above, the generative AI leap applied to code generation allows for lowering the barrier to entry by simply interacting with the observability data in plain English (or your preferred language).

Hopefully, these enhancements, plus the open\-source stack maturity, will compound to expedite the commoditization of observability, contributing to its broader adoption in organizations and benefiting virtually everyone with more reliable end solutions.

Share this postCopy URLShare on Y CombinatorShare on TwitterShare on BlueSkyShare on FacebookShare on LinkedIn### Subscribe to our newsletter
