---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres
topic: change-data-capture-cdc-with-postgresql-and-clickhouse-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '214354.531780374791'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

changes in PostgreSQL [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#tracking-changes-in-postgresql) Any CDC solution requires the source database to provide a robust and reliable means of tracking changes to specific tables at the row and column level. PostgreSQL exposes these changes through two foundational features:

- The [Write\-Ahead Log](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/wal.html) (WAL) is a sequential log of all changes made to the database. Whenever a transaction modifies the database, the changes are first written to the WAL before being applied to the actual data files. This process is known as write\-ahead logging. This provides durability and crash recovery for database transactions. It is a critical component of PostgreSQL's transaction processing mechanism. By using WAL, PostgreSQL ensures that changes are durably stored on disk before considering a transaction as committed. The WAL is also crucial for various replication techniques in PostgreSQL, which use the WAL to capture changes made on the primary database and apply them to the replicas, ensuring consistency across multiple database instances. However, in its native format, this log is not optimized for external processes and is thus challenging to consume.
- [Logical decoding](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/logicaldecoding-explanation.html) in Postgres decodes the contents of the WAL into a coherent and easy\-to\-understand format, such as a stream of tuples or SQL statements. This requires the use of replication slots, which represent a stream of in\-order changes, typically used to replay events between a client and server for normal Postgres replication. Crucially, these replication slots ensure changes are delivered in the order in which they were applied to the source database. This ordering is based on an internal LSN (Log Sequence Number), itself a pointer to a position in the WAL log. This process is robust to crashes, using checkpoints to advance the position. Critically, any consumer must be able to potentially handle duplicate messages delivered due to a restart between checkpoints (Postgres will return to an earlier checkpointed LSN position).
