---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres
topic: change-data-capture-cdc-with-postgresql-and-clickhouse-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '214354.531780374791'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

process is robust to crashes, using checkpoints to advance the position. Critically, any consumer must be able to potentially handle duplicate messages delivered due to a restart between checkpoints (Postgres will return to an earlier checkpointed LSN position).

The decoding process performed by Logical decoding, and the subsequent format of messages in the replication slot, can be controlled through a plugin. While other [options exist](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/postgres-plugins.html), since version 10 Postgres has included a standard logical decoding plugin `pgoutput` that requires no additional libraries to be installed and is also used for internal replication. With this stream of change messages available, we now need a system capable of reading them and sending them to ClickHouse. For this, we will use the open\-source tool Debezium.

## Debezium [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#debezium)

Debezium is a set of services for capturing changes in a database. Debezium records all row\-level changes within a database table as an ordered event stream, sending these to downstream systems for consumption. Supporting a library of [connectors](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/index.html), Debezium aims to produce messages in a format independent of the source DBMS thus allowing similar logic to be employed by the consumer of the events irrespective of the origin. While we have yet to test other database connectors, such as MySQL and MSSQL, this should mean the following ClickHouse configuration should be reusable.

This architecture requires each connector to exploit the appropriate change capture features in each source database. In the case of Postgres, [the connector](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/postgresql.html) exploits the Logical decoding feature and messages exposed through a replication slot, described above. This is coupled with custom Java code which uses the [JDBC driver](https://github.com/pgjdbc/pgjdbc) and [streaming replication protocol](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/logicaldecoding-walsender.html) to read the stream of changes and generate events. In a standard architecture, these events are sent to Kafka for consumption by [downstream sinks](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/connect/index.html#how-kafka-connect-works).

In summary, Debezium will produce a row change event for every insert, update and delete that occurs in Postgres. These events must then be applied to an equivalent table in our ClickHouse instance to ensure our data is consistent. Note that the mapping of tables here is 1. In its simplest form, a Debezium connector is deployed per table, although multi\-table configurations are possible.

### Kafka and the role of a queue [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#kafka-and-the-role-of-a-queue)
