---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres
topic: change-data-capture-cdc-with-postgresql-and-clickhouse-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '214354.531780374791'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

efficiently. As part of this, We also discuss some of the important considerations of using this table engine, as well as recent developments and under what conditions this approach will work optimally. ### Optimizing deletes and updates [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#optimizing-deletes-and-updates)

While OLTP databases such as Postgres are optimized for [transactional update and delete workloads](https://clickhouse.com/blog/adding-real-time-analytics-to-a-supabase-application#oltp-vs-olap), OLAP databases offer reduced guarantees for such operations and optimize for immutable data inserted in batches for the benefit of significantly faster analytical queries. While ClickHouse offers [update operations through mutations](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter), as well as a [lightweight means of deleting row](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/developer/lightweght-delete), its column\-orientated structure means these operations should be scheduled with care. These operations are handled asynchronously, processed with a single thread, and require (in the case of updates) data to be rewritten on disk. They should thus not be used for high numbers of small changes.

In order to process a stream of update and delete rows while avoiding the above usage patterns, we can use the ClickHouse table engine [ReplacingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree).

This table engine allows update operations to be applied to rows, without needing to use inefficient ALTER or DELETE statements, by offering the ability for users to insert multiple copies of the same row and denote one as the latest version. A background process in turn asynchronously removes older versions of the same row, efficiently imitating an update operation through the use of immutable inserts.

This relies on the ability for the table engine to identify duplicate rows. This is achieved using an `ORDER BY` clause to determine uniqueness, i.e., if two rows have the same values for the columns specified in the `ORDER BY`, they are considered duplicates. A version column, specified when defining the table, allows the latest version of a row to be retained when two rows are identified as duplicates i.e. the row with the highest version value is kept.

Additionally, a deleted column can be specified. This can contain either 0 or 1, where a value of 1 indicates that the row (and its duplicates) should be removed and zero is used otherwise.
