---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres
topic: change-data-capture-cdc-with-postgresql-and-clickhouse-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '214354.531780374791'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

a `version` and `deleted` column defined as part of the engine create statement: ``` CREATE TABLE test ( `key` String, `price` UInt64, `version` UInt64, `deleted` UInt8 ) ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree(version, deleted) ORDER BY key ``` ``` {"version":1,"deleted":0,"key":"A","price":100} ```

Suppose we needed to update the price column (as its changed in Postgres) of this row. To achieve this we insert the following row. Note how the key value is identical and but how the version value has been incremented.

```
{"version":2,"deleted":0,"key":"A","price":200}

```

If we later wished to delete this row, we would again insert a duplicate with the same key value, a higher version and a value of 1 for the deleted column.

```
{"version":3,"deleted":1,"key":"A","price":200}

```

This method of update and deletes allows us to explicitly avoid inefficient ALTER and DELETE commands, instead simulating these operations by inserting immutable rows and allowing ClickHouse to asynchronously reconcile the changes.

### Limitations with deletes [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#limitations-with-deletes)

#### Removing deleted rows [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#removing-deleted-rows)

Deleted rows are only removed at merge time if the table level setting `clean_deleted_rows` is set to `Always`. By default, this value is set to `Never`, which means rows will never be deleted. As of ClickHouse version 23\.5, this feature has a [known issue](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/50346) when the value is set to `Always`, causing the wrong rows to be potentially removed.

Therefore, at present, we recommend using the value `Never` as shown \- this will cause deleted rows to accumulate, which may be acceptable at low volumes. To forcibly remove deleted rows, users can periodically schedule an `OPTIMIZE FINAL CLEANUP` operation on the table i.e.

```
OPTIMIZE TABLE uk_price_paid FINAL CLEANUP

```

This is an I/O intensive operation and should be scheduled with care during idle periods.

For this reason, until the above issue is addressed, **we recommend our CDC pipeline only for tables with a low to moderate number of deletes (less than 10%)**.

#### In order delivery only [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#in-order-delivery-only)

If supporting deletes and relying on either `OPTIMIZE FINAL CLEANUP` or `clean_deleted_rows=Always` (when the above issue is addressed) to remove rows, then changes must be delivered in order for **each Postgres row**. More specifically, the rows for a distinct set of values for the configured `ORDER BY` columns must be inserted in the order in which they occurred in Postgres.
