---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres
topic: change-data-capture-cdc-with-postgresql-and-clickhouse-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '214354.531780374791'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

no longer subject to changes. ### Row requirements [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#row-requirements) Thus, in order for our Postgres to ClickHouse Change Data Capture pipeline to work with updates and deletes, any rows sent to ClickHouse thus need to satisfy the following:

- The values of the columns in the ClickHouse `ORDER BY` clause must uniquely identify a row in Postgres.
- When any change event row is sent, whether an update or delete, it must contain the same values for the columns in the ORDER BY clause, which uniquely identifies the row. **These values cannot change and should be considered immutable.** The `ORDER BY` clause will usually contain the primary key column in Postgres. Users will also want to include columns that align with query access patterns to optimize query performance. Updates cannot change these columns \- see [Choosing a Primary Key](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#choosing-a-primary-key).
- When an updated row is sent, it must contain all of the columns from the table with the final state of the row as values, as well as a value of 0 for the `deleted` column and a `version` value higher than the preceding rows.
- When a delete row is sent, it must contain all of the columns for the `ORDER BY clause` and a value of 1 for the deleted column, as well as a higher value for the `version` column than previous columns.
- Inserts must contain all column values, a value of 0 for the `deleted` column, and a `version` number which will be guaranteed to be lower than subsequent updates.

Change events for Postgres rows can be sent independently to ClickHouse. If users are allowing deleted rows to accumulate, change events for a specific row can also be sent **out of order**. If delete events are to be removed, change events must occur **in order** for any specific Postgres row [as described above](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#in-order-delivery-only) (but not across Postgres rows). These constaints must be considered when designing a multi\-threaded/process approach to consuming messages from Kafka.

All of the above requires a version number that satisfies the required properties of ensuring it is monotonically increasing and reflective of the order of events in Postgres for a specific row.

In our next post, we will discuss how we can transform Debezium's change event messages to satisfy the above requirements of the ReplacingMergeTree.
