---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres
topic: change-data-capture-cdc-with-postgresql-and-clickhouse-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '214354.531780374791'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

monotonically increasing and reflective of the order of events in Postgres for a specific row. In our next post, we will discuss how we can transform Debezium's change event messages to satisfy the above requirements of the ReplacingMergeTree.

### Choosing a primary key [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#choosing-a-primary-key)

Above, we highlighted an important additional constraint that must also be satisfied in the case of the `ReplacingMergeTree`: the values of columns of the `ORDER BY` uniquely identify a Postgres row across changes. The Postgres primary key should thus be included in the Clickhouse `ORDER BY` clause.

Users of ClickHouse will be familiar with choosing the columns in their tables `ORDER BY` clause to optimize for query performance. Generally, these columns should be selected based on your [frequent queries and listed in order of increasing cardinality](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes). Importantly, the ReplacingMergeTree imposes an additional constraint \- these columns must be immutable, i.e., only add columns to this clause that **do not change** in the underlying Postgres data. While other columns can change, these are required to be consistent for unique row identification.

For analytical workloads, the Postgres primary key is generally of little use as users will rarely perform point row lookups (something OLAP databases are not optimized for, unlike OLTP databases). Given we recommend that columns be ordered in order of increasing cardinality, as well as the fact that matches on [columns listed earlier in the ORDER BY will usually be faster](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes#secondary-key-columns-can-not-be-inefficient), the Postgres primary key should be appended to the end of the `ORDER BY` (unless it has analytical value). In the case that multiple columns form a primary key in Postgres, they should be appended to the `ORDER BY`, respecting cardinality and the likelihood of query value. Users may also wish to generate a unique primary key using a concatenation of values via a MATERIALIZED column.

Consider the following schema for the [UK property prices dataset](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/uk-price-paid). Here the `id` column represents the unique primary key in Postgres (added to the dataset for example purposes). The columns `postcode1`, `postcode2`, `addr1`, `addr2` represent columns commonly used in analytical queries. The `id` column is thus appended to the end of the `ORDER BY` clause with these preceding.
