---
source: blog
url: https://supabase.com/blog/postgres-foreign-data-wrappers-rust
topic: adding-real-time-analytics-to-a-supabase-application-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.022'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

some functionality in this article might not be available for your Supabase project. If you need access, reach out to [growth@supabase.com](mailto:growth@supabase.com). ## OLTP vs OLAP [\#](/blog/adding-real-time-analytics-to-a-supabase-application#oltp-vs-olap) OLTP, or *online transactional processing* databases, are designed to manage *transactional* information.

The primary objective of these databases is to ensure that an engineer can submit a block of updates to the database and be sure that it will — in its entirety — either succeed or fail.

To demonstrate the utility of this, imagine you’re a bank, and you want to record a $10 wire transfer from one account (origin) to another (destination). Accomplishing this takes two steps:

1. Deduct $10 from the origin’s account balance
2. Add $10 to the destination’s account balance

It’s important that these two updates occur together or not at all. Otherwise, the bank may be left in a state where $10 is unaccounted for! (In the case where \#1 is successful, and \#2 fails).

These types of *transactional* guarantees are the main focus of OLTP databases.

Given these requirements, OLTP databases typically hit performance limitations when used for analytical queries over large datasets.

OLAP, or *online analytical processing* databases, are designed to meet those needs — to manage *analytical* workloads.

The primary objective of these databases is to ensure that engineers can efficiently query and aggregate over vast datasets. *Real\-time* OLAP systems like ClickHouse allow this analysis to happen as data is ingested in real\-time.

## When is each most appropriate? [\#](/blog/adding-real-time-analytics-to-a-supabase-application#when-is-each-most-appropriate)

OLTP databases excel when queries aim to retrieve a specific set of rows, potentially accessing a higher number of columns, and when data is subject to frequent updates that must be executed in real\-time. By optimizing for high\-speed transactions and concurrency, OLTP databases permit data to be accessed and modified simultaneously without conflicts. These access patterns make OLTP databases ideal for storing the **data that maintains the application state** and enables user interactivity. Postgres’ ability to respond rapidly despite high query concurrency under these workloads has made it the OLTP database of choice for applications, powering a wide range of use cases from e\-commerce and financial trading platforms to customer service systems.
