---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/table-functions/generate/
topic: generating-random-data-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '9.9'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

random function that all databases and programming languages have. This function returns pseudo\-random values from 0 (inclusive) to 1 (not exclusive) that are uniformly distributed: ``` ``` 1SELECT randCanonical() ``` ``` ### Random numbers in X…Y range [\#](/blog/generating-random-test-distribution-data-for-clickhouse#random-numbers-in-xy-range)

To generate random numbers within a given range (including lower number, excluding upper value), we can use [`randUniform`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/random-functions/#randuniform):

```
  
```
1SELECT randUniform(5,10)
```


```

This function generates a random float number in the `5...9.9(9)` range. The `randUniform()` function uses a uniform distribution, meaning we will see the same amount of random values across all the given range (when we call the function many times). In other words \- this gives us truly random numbers within a given range.

### Random integers [\#](/blog/generating-random-test-distribution-data-for-clickhouse#random-integers)

To generate random integer numbers, we can round with a [`floor()`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/rounding-functions/#floorx-n) function:

```
  
```
1SELECT floor(randUniform(5, 10)) AS r
```


```

This outputs random numbers in the `5...9` range.

> Note: Due to the nature of a uniform distribution, we can't use `round()` here because we'll end up getting numbers from 6 to 9 (everything that's within a given range) more frequently than 5 and 10 (range edges).

## Non\-uniform random distributions [\#](/blog/generating-random-test-distribution-data-for-clickhouse#non-uniform-random-distributions)

The 22\.10 release of ClickHouse delivers random functions capable of generating non\-uniform (and continuous) distributions. Non\-uniform distribution means that by calling such a function many times, we get some random numbers more frequently than others. The nature of the generated distribution is function specific. Read more on non\-uniform distributions and their common applications.

The most popular distribution is normal, which is implemented by `randNormal()` function:

```
  
```
1SELECT randNormal(100, 5)
```


```

This function takes a mean value as the first argument and [variance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Variance) as the second, outputting float numbers around a mean \- 100 in our example above. Let’s take a look at how these generated numbers are distributed:

```
  
```
1SELECT
2    floor(randNormal(100, 5)) AS k,
3    count(*) AS c,
4    bar(c, 0, 50000, 100)
5FROM numbers(100000) GROUP BY k ORDER BY k ASC
```


```

```
45 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.005 sec. Processed 130.82 thousand rows, 1.05 MB (24.44 million rows/s., 195.53 MB/s.)

```
