---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/dictionary/embedded.md)#
topic: embedded-geobase-dictionaries-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# Embedded (geobase) dictionaries \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Statements](/docs/sql-reference/statements)- [CREATE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create)- DICTIONARY- Embedded dictionaries
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/dictionary/embedded.md)# Embedded (geobase) dictionaries

Not supported in ClickHouse Cloud
NoteThis page isn't applicable to [ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.com/cloud). The feature documented here isn't available in ClickHouse Cloud services.
See the ClickHouse [Cloud Compatibility](/docs/whats-new/cloud-compatibility) guide for more information.

ClickHouse contains a built\-in feature for working with a geobase.

This allows you to:

- Use a region's ID to get its name in the desired language.
- Use a region's ID to get the ID of a city, area, federal district, country, or continent.
- Check whether a region is part of another region.
- Get a chain of parent regions.

All the functions support "translocality," the ability to simultaneously use different perspectives on region ownership. For more information, see the section "Functions for working with web analytics dictionaries".

The internal dictionaries are disabled in the default package.
To enable them, uncomment the parameters `path_to_regions_hierarchy_file` and `path_to_regions_names_files` in the server configuration file.

The geobase is loaded from text files.

Place the `regions_hierarchy*.txt` files into the `path_to_regions_hierarchy_file` directory. This configuration parameter must contain the path to the `regions_hierarchy.txt` file (the default regional hierarchy), and the other files (`regions_hierarchy_ua.txt`) must be located in the same directory.

Put the `regions_names_*.txt` files in the `path_to_regions_names_files` directory.

You can also create these files yourself. The file format is as follows:

`regions_hierarchy*.txt`: TabSeparated (no header), columns:

- region ID (`UInt32`)
- parent region ID (`UInt32`)
- region type (`UInt8`): 1 \- continent, 3 \- country, 4 \- federal district, 5 \- region, 6 \- city; other types do not have values
- population (`UInt32`) — optional column

`regions_names_*.txt`: TabSeparated (no header), columns:

- region ID (`UInt32`)
- region name (`String`) — Can't contain tabs or line feeds, even escaped ones.

A flat array is used for storing in RAM. For this reason, IDs shouldn't be more than a million.
