---
source: blog
url: 'https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/query-condition-cache):'
topic: introducing-the-query-condition-cache
ch_version_introduced: '100.00'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

avoid that the cache turns into a bottleneck, ClickHouse batches multiple granules and writes their matches into the cache at once. ## Inspecting the query condition cache [\#](/blog/introducing-the-clickhouse-query-condition-cache#inspecting-the-query-condition-cache) We can query that cache via the [query\_condition\_cache](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/system-tables/query_condition_cache) system table:

```

```
1SELECT table_uuid, part_name, key_hash, matching_marks
2FROM system.query_condition_cache LIMIT 1 FORMAT Vertical;
```


```

```

```
table_uuid:     6f0f1c9d-3e98-4982-8874-27a18e8b0c2b
part_name:      all_9_9_0
key_hash:       10479296885953282043
matching_marks: [1,1,1,0,0,0, ...]
```

```

## Comparing with and without the cache [\#](/blog/introducing-the-clickhouse-query-condition-cache#comparing-with-and-without-the-cache)

Now that the query condition cache is filled for the predicate of our first example query, we can run the query a second time with the query condition cache enabled:

```

```
1SELECT count()
2FROM bluesky
3WHERE
4    data.kind = 'commit'
5    AND data.commit.operation = 'create'
6    AND data.commit.collection = 'app.bsky.feed.post'
7    AND data.commit.record.text LIKE '%🥨%'
8SETTINGS use_query_condition_cache = true;
```


```

```

```
┌─count()─┐
│      69 │
└─────────┘

1 row in set. Elapsed: 0.037 sec. Processed 2.16 million rows, 173.82 MB (59.21 million rows/s., 4.76 GB/s.)
Peak memory usage: 163.38 MiB.
```

```

This time, the query runs significantly faster, ClickHouse scans only \~2 million rows instead of \~100 million. Thanks to the query condition cache, it skips all granules that contain no rows matching the query predicate.

## Confirming cache hits in the trace log [\#](/blog/introducing-the-clickhouse-query-condition-cache#confirming-cache-hits-in-the-trace-log)

We can observe this with trace logging:

```

```
1SELECT count()
2FROM bluesky
3WHERE
4    data.kind = 'commit'
5    AND data.commit.operation = 'create'
6    AND data.commit.collection = 'app.bsky.feed.post'
7    AND data.commit.record.text LIKE '%🥨%'
8SETTINGS use_query_condition_cache = true, send_logs_level='trace';
```


```

```

```
① <Trace> ...: Filtering marks by primary keys
...
② <Debug> QueryConditionCache: Read entry for table_uuid:
        6f0f1c9d-3e98-4982-8874-27a18e8b0c2b, part: all_1_6_1,
        condition_hash: 10479296885953282043, ranges: [0,0,...]
...
② <Debug> ...: Query condition cache has dropped 11970/12138 granules for WHERE condition and(equals(data.kind, 'commit'_String), equals(data.commit.operation, 'create'_String), equals(data.commit.collection, 'app.bsky.feed.post'_String), like(data.commit.record.text, '%🥨%'_String)).
...
③ <Debug> ...: 168 marks to read from 73 ranges
④ <Trace> ...: Spreading mark ranges among streams
④ <Debug> ...: Reading approx. 1376256 rows with 18 streams
```

```
