---
source: blog
url: https://loopme.com/
topic: measuring-brand-impact-how-loopme-uses-clickhouse-to-deliver-better-brand-advertising-outcomes
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

must ensure that its data is accurate to effectively optimize campaigns, it must keep its data secure to comply with privacy regulations, and it must be able to increase data loads seasonally without sacrificing on performance or cost.

These are complex challenges for any company, and they’re what led Marco’s team to investigate a better solution for their data needs. After evaluating several options, they found that most traditional databases struggled with the high query rates and data ingestion speeds necessary for their requirements. ClickHouse, on the other hand, showed it could process large volumes of data quickly and efficiently, making it an ideal choice.

Marco also says that while initially there were hesitations about partnering with a third\-party service, especially given the sensitive nature of the data involved in ad tech, they were drawn to ClickHouse’s well\-documented security policies and practices. This documentation ensured that LoopMe could maintain security integrity while using ClickHouse, and provided the necessary assurances to auditors that their data security was intact.

## The benefits of ClickHouse [\#](/blog/measuring-brand-impact-how-loopme-uses-clickhouse-to-deliver-better-brand-advertising-outcomes#the-benefits-of-clickhouse)

Marco’s team began integrating ClickHouse into their infrastructure in 2019\. Right away they saw its ability to handle large datasets and complex queries with lightning\-fast speed and efficiency. Soon, all of LoopMe’s ad tech products, as well as its business intelligence tools, were running on ClickHouse.

In 2024, LoopMe moved its data operations to ClickHouse Cloud. The managed service not only ensured fast, efficient, and scalable data handling, it has also dramatically simplified their infrastructure management.

> “We like to build ad tech products, not build our own infrastructure,” Marco says. “We’re very happy when we find a provider who can do things better than us.”

## Performance and efficiency [\#](/blog/measuring-brand-impact-how-loopme-uses-clickhouse-to-deliver-better-brand-advertising-outcomes#performance-and-efficiency)

ClickHouse’s core strength lies in its ability to process large datasets quickly. Its columnar storage format allows for faster retrieval and processing of data, speeding up analytical queries and reporting. For LoopMe, the move to ClickHouse Cloud has further optimized these processes thanks to cloud\-native technologies that enhance data processing capabilities without the overhead of managing physical servers.
