---
source: blog
url: https://loopme.com/
topic: measuring-brand-impact-how-loopme-uses-clickhouse-to-deliver-better-brand-advertising-outcomes
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

and processing of data, speeding up analytical queries and reporting. For LoopMe, the move to ClickHouse Cloud has further optimized these processes thanks to cloud\-native technologies that enhance data processing capabilities without the overhead of managing physical servers.

The efficiency provided by ClickHouse not only speeds up operations but also reduces the load on resources, lowering operational costs. By switching to ClickHouse Cloud, LoopMe is running the same system on three nodes, as compared to the 20 it was using with its pre\-cloud ClickHouse infrastructure. With fewer resources needed to handle the same amount of data, LoopMe is able to run a leaner, more cost\-effective operation.

> “We’re a company that tries to ingest as much data as possible to make optimization decisions, which can be a recipe for rising costs,” Marco says. “ClickHouse Cloud makes that process so efficient, and the price point is so much lower, we can actually look forward to ingesting more data into our systems while keeping costs relatively at bay.”

## Seasonal scalability [\#](/blog/measuring-brand-impact-how-loopme-uses-clickhouse-to-deliver-better-brand-advertising-outcomes#seasonal-scalability)

Given the cyclic nature of the advertising industry, LoopMe’s revenue and data volume can vary dramatically between seasons. Data processing demands rise and fall from Q4 to Q1, for example, underscoring the value of a scalable infrastructure that can not only handle increased workloads but that also scales down efficiently during quieter periods.

While other databases and cloud services are built to accommodate growth, they’re not designed to automatically scale down during slower periods. This mismatch leads to over\-provisioning, where companies continue to incur high costs for resources that are no longer necessary.

ClickHouse, according to Marco, offers more fluid scalability. This means that LoopMe can adjust their resource use up or down, matching their infrastructure costs more closely with their actual needs throughout the year. This ability to dynamically adjust resources is crucial for maintaining cost efficiency in the fluctuating ad tech market.

## Simplified data management [\#](/blog/measuring-brand-impact-how-loopme-uses-clickhouse-to-deliver-better-brand-advertising-outcomes#simplified-data-management)
