---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/afe0f3c3e76e848e6941903e93f05dd41fccfea0
topic: join-optimization-tricks-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '188.384'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

and dont care for rest of cases. We can use that. Usually, ClickHouse is able to pushdown conditions, but not in that case, when conditions itself part of function expression, so you can manually help in those cases.

```
SELECT  
      sumIf(ss_sales_price, customer.c_first_name = 'James') as sum_James,
    	sumIf(ss_sales_price, customer.c_first_name = 'Lisa') as sum_Lisa,
    	sum(ss_sales_price) as sum_total
FROM store_sales LEFT JOIN (SELECT * FROM customer WHERE c_first_name = 'James' OR c_first_name = 'Lisa') as customer ON store_sales.ss_customer_sk = customer.c_customer_sk

1 row in set. Elapsed: 35.370 sec. Processed 2.89 billion rows, 40.60 GB (81.76 million rows/s., 1.15 GB/s.)

```
## Reduce right table row size

### Reduce attribute columns (push expression before JOIN step)

Our row from the right table consists of 2 fields: customer\_sk and c\_first\_name.
First one is needed to JOIN by it, so it’s not much we can do here, but we can transform a bit of the second column.

Again, let’s look in how we use this column in main query:

customer.c\_first\_name \= ‘James’
customer.c\_first\_name \= ‘Lisa’

We calculate 2 simple conditions(which don’t have any dependency on data from the left table) and nothing more.
It does mean that we can move this calculation to the right table, it will make 3 improvements!

1. Right table will be smaller \-\> smaller RAM usage \-\> better cache hits
2. We will calculate our conditions over a smaller data set. In the right table we have only 10 million rows and after joining because of the left table we have 2 billion rows \-\> 200 times improvement!
3. Our resulting table after JOIN will not have an expensive String column, only 1 byte UInt8 instead \-\> less copy of data in memory.

Let’s do it:

There are several ways to rewrite that query, let’s not bother with simple once and go straight to most optimized:

Put our 2 conditions in hand\-made bitmask:

In order to do that we will take our conditions and multiply them by
