---
source: blog
url: https://www.anlytic.com/
topic: anlytic-com-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

years, I managed 13\+ engineers, wrote style guides for the company, and gave masterclasses in software development. ### What is the origin story of the company or the team within the company? What problem are you solving? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#what-is-the-origin-story-of-the-company-or-the-team-within-the-company-what-problem-are-you-solving)

Although the automation engineering job was technically challenging, my passion lies in data. During COVID, I started freelancing as a data engineer. After six months, I was introduced to the National Police in the Netherlands. They had built a handful of dashboards for the Head of the Police and ministers in the parliament. They asked for my help to take these dashboards to production. While working on the data infrastructure, I realized a massive duplication of work was occurring. Not directly in this process, but the reporting flow, as the industry standard, has an enormous productivity issue. The de facto way of working is by pre\-building data assets to be used in dashboards. Then, these dashboards are stripped apart into separate Word documents, where, in turn, implications are discussed. If we look at that process and the communication flows required, we face two major issues. The first is that pre\-building data assets lack the flexibility required to make an extensive range of analyses. That means that instead of sharing data around an organization, we share insights on dashboards, for which in\-depth analysis requires another layer of building data assets. Previous BI tools are built upon that assumption. With the rise of ClickHouse this assumption is no longer required, but previous BI systems are still working under this assumption. We shouldn't distribute dashboards but the data itself. When we do this, a second issue arises: communication around the data itself. Copy and paste charts into Word documents to write reports disconnects those reports from the data itself. Resulting in a massive duplication of work.

At Anlytic.com, we remove the data accessibility barrier by directly distributing data around an organization. With our reporting features, we keep this data connected in one place, which we are calling a Data Hub. 

### What is most important when you tell your, or your team’s, story? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#what-is-most-important-when-you-tell-your-or-your-teams-story)
