---
source: blog
url: https://www.anlytic.com/
topic: anlytic-com-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

distributing data around an organization. With our reporting features, we keep this data connected in one place, which we are calling a Data Hub. ### What is most important when you tell your, or your team’s, story? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#what-is-most-important-when-you-tell-your-or-your-teams-story)

We are going against all odds; we are creating a category in an established market in which our product functions as a substitute. And I love it! I genuinely believe that we can impact how companies are run in the future.

### What requirements did you have for the database/store component(s) in your architecture? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#what-requirements-did-you-have-for-the-databasestore-components-in-your-architecture)

- By limiting pre\-processing of data, performance is our most significant barrier.
- On\-demand scaling of our database plays a large role in ad\-hoc advanced calculations
- To guarantee data quality, we wanted to stay as close as possible to a fully structured SQL database
- On\-premise option

### Discovery of ClickHouse \- how did you hear about it, and what made you excited to give it a try? What were your hesitations? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#discovery-of-clickhouse---how-did-you-hear-about-it-and-what-made-you-excited-to-give-it-a-try-what-were-your-hesitations)

> If we are looking at high\-performance database systems for these types of workloads, the only two options are ClickHouse and Snowflake. ClickHouse is significantly faster. Before ClickHouse, we were using Postgres. Here, we had one query that was taking 80\+ seconds to load. I tried everything to get the performance up for this query. When I switched to ClickHouse, the runtime dropped to 0\.3 seconds.

My most considerable hesitation was the majority of the application. One clear signal of this is the quality of the client libraries. We are using Golang, and the GitHub page already shows that they are not implementing the Golang standard database interface. This would and is resulting in much extra code on our side. But the performance is unprecedented and is worth it.

### How did you evaluate ClickHouse? How did ClickHouse perform against the alternatives considered? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#how-did-you-evaluate-clickhouse-how-did-clickhouse-perform-against-the-alternatives-considered)

As I mentioned before, the performance update when switching from Postgres was extreme. The same holds for the runtime of the data pipelines. At this moment, we are processing around 1 billion rows per month, reducing the cost of these pipelines significantly. 

### What alternative databases did you consider? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#what-alternative-databases-did-you-consider)
