---
source: blog
url: https://www.anlytic.com/
topic: anlytic-com-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

extreme. The same holds for the runtime of the data pipelines. At this moment, we are processing around 1 billion rows per month, reducing the cost of these pipelines significantly. ### What alternative databases did you consider? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#what-alternative-databases-did-you-consider)

The main alternative was Snowflake. One major issue with Snowflake is the lack of an On\-Prem solution. Some of our clients run a complete Anlytic.com instance on their cloud for, them having the option to spin up ClickHouse ourselves saves us a lot of extra work.

### What were the considerations when weighing the use of cloud vs self\-managed ClickHouse? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#what-were-the-considerations-when-weighing-the-use-of-cloud-vs-self-managed-clickhouse)

The cloud instance has an excellent sleeping mode. This makes the cost go down significantly while still having a heavy instance running during working hours. As I said, we are using both self\-managed instances for our On\-Prem solution and the Cloud instance for our cloud\-hosted instances. 

### Can you share some quantitative metrics about ClickHouse's performance (e.g., ingest/query latency/overall data volumes/cost efficiency)? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#can-you-share-some-quantitative-metrics-about-clickhouses-performance-eg-ingestquery-latencyoverall-data-volumescost-efficiency)

We are still in the early stages. For now, we see that on our primary cloud instance, we read more than 1\.8TB per month. With over 90 billion rows monthly read. All with an average query time of around 0\.3 seconds.

### Looking forward, what's next for you (and your use of ClickHouse)? [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#looking-forward-whats-next-for-you-and-your-use-of-clickhouse)

Soon, we will add a managed ClickHouse option to Anlytic.com. Together with our managed databases, we will start writing data connectors. 

Next to managed databases, we are working on adding metrics and real\-time data to the system. 

My goal is to create predefined data hubs. For example, I want to make a SaaS data hub that connects to Stripe, a CRM, Google Analytics, and Application metrics. Then, we can combine Postgres for low data volumes and ClickHouse for large data volumes. 

### How would you describe ClickHouse in 3 words?  [\#](/blog/anlytic-big-data-analytics-at-the-dutch-police#how-would-you-describe-clickhouse-in-3-words--)

- Unprecedented Fast
- Heavyweight
- Flexible

Interested in learning more? [Watch Anlytic's Meetup presentation.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NJ99IsdfMSs)

[Get started](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog) with ClickHouse Cloud today and receive $300 in credits. At the end of your 30\-day trial, continue with a pay\-as\-you\-go plan, or [contact us](/company/contact?loc=blog-cta-footer) to learn more about our volume\-based discounts. Visit our [pricing page](/pricing?loc=blog-cta-header) for details.

Share this postCopy URLShare on Y CombinatorShare on TwitterShare on BlueSkyShare on FacebookShare on LinkedIn### Subscribe to our newsletter
