---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-useful-queries/compare_query_log_for_2_intervals/
topic: useful-queries-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.9'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 18
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

related to replication and distributed connections## `ClickHouseDistributedConnectionExceptions` This alert usually indicates that one of the nodes isnŌĆÖt responding or that thereŌĆÖs an interconnectivity issue. Debug steps: ## 1\. Check Cluster Connectivity Verify connectivity inside the cluster by running:

```
SELECT count() FROM clusterAllReplicas('{cluster}', cluster('{cluster}', system.one))

```
## 2\. Check for Errors

Run the following queries to see if any nodes report errors:

```
SELECT hostName(), * FROM clusterAllReplicas('{cluster}', system.clusters) WHERE errors_count > 0;
SELECT hostName(), * FROM clusterAllReplicas('{cluster}', system.errors) WHERE last_error_time > now() - 3600 ORDER BY value;

```
Depending on the results, ensure that the affected node is up and responding to queries. Also, verify that connectivity (DNS, routes, delays) is functioning correctly.

### `ClickHouseReplicatedPartChecksFailed` \& `ClickHouseReplicatedPartFailedFetches`

Unless youŌĆÖre seeing huge numbers, these alerts can generally be ignored. TheyŌĆÖre often a sign of temporary replication issues that ClickHouse resolves on its own. However, if the issue persists or increases rapidly, follow the steps to debug replication issues:

- Check the replication status using tables such as system.replicas and system.replication\_queue.
- Examine server logs, system.errors, and system load for any clues.
- Try to restart the replica (`SYSTEM RESTART REPLICA db_name.table_name` command) and, if necessary, contact Altinity support.
# 11 \- Number of active parts in a partition

Number of active parts in a partition## Q: Why do I have several active parts in a partition? Why ClickHouse┬« does not merge them immediately?

### A: CH does not merge parts by time

Merge scheduler selects parts by own algorithm based on the current node workload / number of parts / size of parts.

CH merge scheduler balances between a big number of parts and a wasting resources on merges.

Merges are CPU/DISK IO expensive. If CH will merge every new part then all resources will be spend on merges and will no resources remain on queries (selects ).

CH will not merge parts with a combined size greater than 150 GB [max\_bytes\_to\_merge\_at\_max\_space\_in\_pool](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#max-bytes-to-merge-at-max-space-in-pool)
.

```
SELECT
    database,
    table,
    partition,
    sum(rows) AS rows,
    count() AS part_count
FROM system.parts
WHERE (active = 1) AND (table LIKE '%') AND (database LIKE '%')
GROUP BY
    database,
    table,
    partition
ORDER BY part_count DESC
limit 20

```
# 12 \- Parts consistency

## Check if there are blocks missing
