---
source: blog
url: https://www.anthropic.com/news/model-context-protocol
topic: integrating-with-clickhouse-mcp
ch_version_introduced: '3.13'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

and there is a real back\-and\-forth. If we add third\-party services into the mix, we can't disrupt the user experience. If a user wants to query their database this way, it needs to handle this kind of responsiveness.

That's what makes ClickHouse the ideal database for agentic AI data workflows. ClickHouse is built to be the world's fastest analytical database, where no bits, bytes, or milliseconds are wasted. Even before the LLM and agentic era, ClickHouse aimed to support interactive analytics at scale. We didn't set out to be the best database for agentic AI \- sometimes, happy accidents just happen.

### Get started today

Interested in seeing how ClickHouse works on your data? Get started with ClickHouse Cloud in minutes and receive $300 in free credits.

[Sign up](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog)
## Future use cases [\#](/blog/integrating-clickhouse-mcp#future-use-cases)

Popularity aside, it's still early days, and the tools, workflows, and use cases are evolving rapidly. We see a lot of people forgoing the traditional SQL interface and BI tooling, instead using chat interfaces like Claude Desktop or ChatGPT to talk to their data, skipping SQL entirely, and generating insights and visualizations. We also see developers without a traditional data background building user\-facing applications that expose data to end users, relying on LLMs not just to generate front\-ends, but to structure data and optimise queries for very high concurrency.

With ClickHouse also becoming [the best choice for observability 2\.0](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickstack-a-high-performance-oss-observability-stack-on-clickhouse), we're seeing SREs and DevOps teams using LLMs to query their traces, metrics, and logs, blending full\-text search and analytics without obscure query syntax.

And we're imagining what might come next: perhaps we'll see LLMs able to use existing observability data to inform their thinking, perhaps making recommendations for architecture, performance enhancements, or bug fixes based on the data they can access without requiring users to prompt with specific errors or traces.

> Soon, ClickHouse Cloud will offer a remote MCP server as a default interface. That means any MCP client could connect directly to your cloud instance without additional local setup.
> 
> 
> Want early access? [Sign up for the AI features waitlist at clickhouse.ai](http://clickhouse.ai).

## ClickHouse MCP Agent Examples [\#](/blog/integrating-clickhouse-mcp#clickhouse-mcp-agent-examples)

To make it dead simple to get started, we’ve put together some practical examples showing how to integrate various libraries with the ClickHouse MCP server.
