---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/clickhouse-zookeeper/
topic: cluster-configuration-process-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

1. all\-replicated: All nodes are listed as replicas in a single shard. 2. all\-sharded: All nodes are listed as separate shards with no replicas. Once this is complete, other queries that span nodes can be performed. For example:

```
CREATE TABLE test_table_local ON CLUSTER '{cluster}'
(
  id UInt8
)
Engine=ReplicatedMergeTree('/clickhouse/tables/{database}/{table}/{shard}', '{replica}')
ORDER BY (id);

```
That will create a table on all servers in the cluster. You can insert data into this table and it will be replicated automatically to the other shards.To store the data or read the data from all shards at the same time, create a Distributed table that links to the replicatedMergeTree table.

```
CREATE TABLE test_table ON CLUSTER '{cluster}'
Engine=Distributed('{cluster}', 'default', '

```
#### **Hardening ClickHouse Security**

**See** <https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/security/>

### Additional Settings

See [altinity\-kb\-settings\-to\-adjust](http://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-settings-to-adjust/)

#### Users

Disable or add password for the default users default and readonly if your server is accessible from non\-trusted networks.

If you add password to the default user, you will need to adjust cluster configuration, since the other servers need to know the default user’s should know the default user’s to connect to each other.

If you’re inside a trusted network, you can leave default user set to nothing to allow the ClickHouse nodes to communicate with each other.

#### Engines \& ClickHouse building blocks

For general explanations of roles of different engines \- check the post [Distributed vs Shard vs Replicated ahhh, help me!!!](https://github.com/yandex/ClickHouse/issues/2161)
.

#### Zookeeper Paths

Use conventions for zookeeper paths. For example, use:

ReplicatedMergeTree(’/clickhouse/{cluster}/tables/{shard}/table\_name’, ‘{replica}’)

for:

SELECT \* FROM system.zookeeper WHERE path\=’/ …';

#### Configuration Best Practices

| AttributionModified by a post \[on GitHub by Mikhail Filimonov](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/3607\#issuecomment\-440235298\). |
| --- |

The following are recommended Best Practices when it comes to setting up a ClickHouse Cluster with Zookeeper:

1. Don’t edit/overwrite default configuration files. Sometimes a newer version of ClickHouse introduces some new settings or changes the defaults in config.xml and users.xml.
	1. Set configurations via the extra files in conf.d directory. For example, to overwrite the interface save the file config.d/listen.xml, with the following:

```
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<yandex>
    <listen_host replace="replace">::</listen_host>
</yandex>

```
1. The same is true for users. For example, change the default profile by putting the file in users.d/profile\_default.xml:
