---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/clickhouse-zookeeper/
topic: cluster-configuration-process-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

users.xml. These are part of the profile . - \<max\_execution\_time\> - \<log\_queries\> The following extra debug logs should be considered: - part\_log - text\_log ### Understanding The Configuration ClickHouse configuration stores most of its information in two files:

- config.xml: Stores [Server configuration parameters](https://clickhouse.yandex/docs/en/operations/server_settings/)
. They are server wide, some are hierarchical , and most of them can’t be changed in runtime. The list of settings to apply without a restart changes from version to version. Some settings can be verified using system tables, for example:
	- macros (system.macros)
	- remote\_servers (system.clusters)
- users.xml: Configure users, and user level / session level [settings](https://clickhouse.yandex/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/)
.
	- Each user can change these during their session by:
		- Using parameter in http query
		- By using parameter for clickhouse\-client
		- Sending query like set allow\_experimental\_data\_skipping\_indices\=1\.
	- Those settings and their current values are visible in system.settings. You can make some settings global by editing default profile in users.xml, which does not need restart.
	- You can forbid users to change their settings by using readonly\=2 for that user, or using [setting constraints](https://clickhouse.yandex/docs/en/operations/settings/constraints_on_settings/)
	.
	- Changes in users.xml are applied w/o restart.

For both config.xml and users.xml, it’s preferable to put adjustments in the config.d and users.d subfolders instead of editing config.xml and users.xml directly.

You can check if the config file was reread by checking /var/lib/clickhouse/preprocessed\_configs/ folder.

Last modified 2024\.08\.13: [Fixed multiple typos here and there (9fb2290\)](https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/9fb2290fbebcd92a3f79a7f321f13960ea89ebec)
