---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/huynguyen-anduin
topic: what-s-new-in-clickstack-july-25
ch_version_introduced: '1.2'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

for the JSON type in the [clickhouse\-go client](https://github.com/clickHouse/clickHouse-go) \- used by the exporter for data insertion. This inserts JSON columns as a serialized JSON string. ClickHouse parses this and handles the identification of new columns and their types.

Additionally, there were also some optimizations made to the insertion logic itself. The Go driver was updated to use ClickHouse’s native API for both TCP and HTTP connections. This improved performance when transforming the data from OpenTelemetry's structures to ClickHouse's native columnar format. We also used `pprof` to identify optimizations for the main insertion loops. Most of these were redundant calls to getters on OpenTelemetry structures.

Support for JSON in the ClickHouse exporter was recently [merged behind a feature flag](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/pull/40547). With this change, all columns that previously used the Map type now use the JSON type.

### Adding support to HyperDX [\#](/blog/whats-new-clickstack-july-2025#adding-support-to-hyperdx)

With support for the JSON type in the OpenTelemetry Collector, we could turn our focus to adding support in the UI layer \- HyperDX.

To fully integrate support in HyperDX, we needed to update the UI to handle nested objects, which wasn’t feasible with the old `Map` type. This meant refactoring various components of the frontend to correctly render and interact with deeply structured JSON data. Furthermore, a few queries had to be rewritten to use the new JSON path notation, allowing us to access nested fields efficiently. At this stage, some operations still rely on casting JSON values to strings or floats, but over time we plan to implement smarter metadata caching. This would let us skip casting entirely when a field is consistently a single type.

Looking ahead, we expect to continue evolving the schema by introducing additional indexes and optimizations tailored for JSON workloads, improving performance even further within the ClickStack architecture.

### How to enable JSON support? [\#](/blog/whats-new-clickstack-july-2025#how-to-enable-json-support)

For now, JSON support remains beta and can be enabled with a feature flag when [deploying any of the stack deployment modes](https://clickhouse.com/docs/use-cases/observability/clickstack/getting-started).

```
docker run -e BETA_CH_OTEL_JSON_SCHEMA_ENABLED=true -e OTEL_AGENT_FEATURE_GATE_ARG='--feature-gates=clickhouse.json' -p 8080:8080 -p 4317:4317 -p 4318:4318 docker.hyperdx.io/hyperdx/hyperdx-all-in-one:2-nightly

```

> Two environment variables are required to enable JSON type support: `BETA_CH_OTEL_JSON_SCHEMA_ENABLED=true` enables JSON support in ClickHouse, while `OTEL_AGENT_FEATURE_GATE_ARG='--feature-gates=clickhouse.json'` enables JSON ingestion in the OTel collector.
