---
source: blog
url: https://gist.github.com/gingerwizard/5a9a87a39ba93b422d8640d811e269e9
topic: clickhouse-release-24-2
ch_version_introduced: '0.003'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

SELECT word, vector / L2Norm(vector) AS vector FROM s3('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/glove/glove_840b_300d.parquet') SETTINGS schema_inference_make_columns_nullable = 0 0 rows in set. Elapsed: 51.699 sec. Processed 2.20 million rows, 2.66 GB (42.48 thousand rows/s., 51.46 MB/s.) ``` Our query from earlier thus becomes:

```
WITH
	'dog' AS search_term,
	(
    	SELECT vector
    	FROM glove
    	WHERE word = search_term
    	LIMIT 1
	) AS target_vector
SELECT
	word,
	1 - dotProduct(vector, target_vector) AS score
FROM glove
WHERE lower(word) != lower(search_term)
ORDER BY score ASC
LIMIT 5

┌─────────┬─────────────────────┐
│ word    │ score               │
├─────────┼─────────────────────┤
│ dogs    │ 0.11640697717666626 │
│ puppy   │ 0.1414787769317627  │
│ pet     │ 0.19425475597381592 │
│ cat     │ 0.19831448793411255 │
│ puppies │ 0.24826878309249878 │
└─────────┴─────────────────────┘


5 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.262 sec. Processed 1.99 million rows, 2.42 GB (7.61 million rows/s., 9.25 GB/s.)
Peak memory usage: 226.29 MiB.

```

This query takes 0\.262 seconds compared to 0\.286 seconds when using cosine similarity \- a small time saving when compared to our original query, but every ms counts!

There is a [PR still pending](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/60928) that will fix both correctness and performance of the `dotProduct` function, which should be merged soon.

## Adaptive asynchronous inserts [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-24-02#adaptive-asynchronous-inserts)

### Contributed by Julia Kartseva [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-24-02#contributed-by-julia-kartseva)

With traditional insert queries, data is inserted into a table [synchronously](https://clickhouse.com/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#synchronous-data-inserts-primer): When the query gets received by ClickHouse, the data is immediately written to the database storage in the form of a data part. For optimal performance, [data needs to be batched](https://clickhouse.com/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#data-needs-to-be-batched-for-optimal-performance), and generally, we should avoid creating too many small inserts too frequently.

Asynchronous inserts shift data batching from the client side to the server side: data from insert queries is inserted into a buffer first and then written to the database storage later or [asynchronously](https://clickhouse.com/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#asynchronous-inserts) respectively. This is handy, especially for scenarios where many concurrent clients insert data frequently into a table, the data should be analyzed in real\-time, and delays caused by client\-side batching are unacceptable. For [example](https://clickhouse.com/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#example-application-and-benchmark-setup), observability use cases frequently involve thousands of monitoring agents continuously sending small amounts of event and metrics data. Such scenarios can utilize the asynchronous insert mode, illustrated by the following diagram:
