---
source: blog
url: https://www.gumlet.com/
topic: clickhouse-cloud-gumlet-s-key-to-processing-billions-of-video-and-image-requests-daily
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

you're syncing data in real\-time, and every query adds to the expense," Aditya explains. "Anyone who has worked with BigQuery knows how quickly these costs can add up, depending on the type and volume of queries you fire."

Another issue was BigQuery's limit of 100 concurrent queries, which created bottlenecks for Gumlet's customers. "If our customers needed to fire more analytics API requests than that, they would fail or go into a queue," Aditya says. "We could have switched to a dedicated BigQuery plan, but that came with its own set of problems."

Storage costs added a further layer of complexity. BigQuery charged based on logical storage, which bills based on the data's theoretical size rather than its physical footprint, meaning Gumlet paid for the full size of every data point, even when the data was small or repetitive. For example, a simple HTTP status code like "200 OK," indicating a successful request, would be charged as 32 bytes. "When you're storing billions of these entries, the costs can quickly get out of control," Aditya says.

## A better data solution [\#](/blog/gumlet-processing-billions-of-video-image-requests-with-clickhouse#a-better-data-solution)

Realizing the limits of BigQuery, Aditya and the team began evaluating alternatives that could better handle their data needs. Their criteria were straightforward: scalable storage, fixed compute costs, exceptional documentation, and, preferably, no maintenance. "We're a relatively lean, remote team of 12 engineers, with no SRE or DevOps team," Aditya says. "We wanted something that would just fly, and that we wouldn't have to manage at all."

They looked at several options, including Athena, Redshift, Snowflake, and ClickHouse. Athena was ruled out early due its slow query speeds, while Redshift offered better performance but came with higher storage and computation costs. Meanwhile, Snowflake's "extremely costly" pricing made it a non\-starter for Gumlet's scale. "We tested Snowflake a little, but the pricing for the data sizes we had was just too high to explore further," Aditya says.

Ultimately, ClickHouse emerged as the best fit for Gumlet's needs. It offered scalable storage, predictable costs, and excellent performance. Plus, its documentation made it easy for Aditya and the team to get started without a steep learning curve.
