---
source: blog
url: https://www.gumlet.com/
topic: clickhouse-cloud-gumlet-s-key-to-processing-billions-of-video-and-image-requests-daily
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

pre\-compute results and serve real\-time dashboards without adding latency. ## The benefits of ClickHouse [\#](/blog/gumlet-processing-billions-of-video-image-requests-with-clickhouse#the-benefits-of-clickhouse) For Aditya and the Gumlet team, migrating to ClickHouse has brought a number of big\-time improvements, ranging from cost to performance and scalability.

One of the most important wins was cost predictability. Unlike BigQuery's variable per\-query pricing model, ClickHouse Cloud offers fixed compute costs, with only storage costs tied to usage. "We know what we're going to get charged for compute month to month, which is very important, because that's the costly part, not storage," Aditya says.

Another big benefit has been improvements in ingestion speed. By processing batch inserts efficiently and taking advantage of ClickHouse's S3 integration, they've eliminated the need for complex ETL processes. "Since moving to ClickHouse, we just throw everything at it, and it handles it all in less than two minutes," Aditya says.

Aditya also highlights the rapid response times since switching to the new system, with no limits on the number of concurrent queries. "We can run, like, 500 queries in one go, and it handles them really quickly — within two or three seconds, not minutes," he says. "It's the fastest database in the world. You can't argue with that."

Finally, as a managed service, ClickHouse Cloud has simplified Gumlet's operations, helping them offload tasks like scaling, replication, and backups. This frees up valuable engineering resources and lets the team focus entirely on improving their product.

## Lessons learned [\#](/blog/gumlet-processing-billions-of-video-image-requests-with-clickhouse#lessons-learned)

While Gumlet's migration to ClickHouse was a success, like any major change it came with a few learnings, which Aditya shared for anyone considering a move to ClickHouse.

One of these was the need to adapt tools and workflows to fit the new system. For instance, Gumlet decided to switch to Metabase for their business intelligence (BI) needs, as ClickHouse lacks native support for their previous BI tool, Google Data Studio. Similarly, not all ETL tools support ClickHouse at the moment, so the team had to choose alternatives that were compatible with their data processing needs.
