---
source: blog
url: https://tekion.com/
topic: tekion-adopts-clickhouse-cloud-to-power-application-performance-and-metrics-monitoring
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

are not working, engineers and data scientists are unable to effectively develop and ship new applications. Running previously on a well\-known search provider, this stack became no longer performant, expensive, and difficult to maintain, as data volumes increased.

Tekion’s **Dataplatform APM** is an in\-house platform for application performance monitoring (APM), analyzing the performance of software applications to ensure they are running efficiently and meeting performance objectives: “By measuring the quality of our own performance through customized dashboards, we've harnessed ClickHouse capabilities to improve our decision\-making processes and its efficiency and scalability are becoming indispensable”. Another inhouse platform, **Dataplatform Custom Metrics** allows users, applications, jobs, and tools to send metrics from diverse sources and create custom metrics. Tekion can capture, track, monitor and report on unique aspects of performance or behavior and to identify anomalies or issues, so appropriate action can be taken.

## Challenges with scale and cost prompts a search for alternatives [\#](/blog/tekion-adopts-clickhouse-cloud-to-power-application-performance-and-metrics-monitoring#challenges-with-scale-and-cost-prompts-a-search-for-alternatives)

As Tekion grew and its engineering operations expanded, its internal observability stack started facing challenges around ingestion speed and efficiency, query performance, and spiraling costs: “As our data continued to expand, the limitations around scalability, speed and cost effectiveness of our existing tech became increasingly apparent,” says Surtani. Tekion considered storing only aggregate data, assuming it would address most user needs. However, the inability to drill down into individual transactions for debugging purposes remained a persistent challenge: “Previously, the idea of ingesting raw records and attaining detailed transaction information seemed daunting. While it's theoretically possible to achieve impressive outcomes by investing substantial financial resources into building a large cluster. Such an approach is neither practical nor financially sustainable,” Surtani explains.

In the previous architecture, data streams from applications were ingested via Kafka and processed through custom services into the datastore. This approach facilitated the execution of custom Spark jobs to uncover complex patterns and alerts. While effective for analysis, consumption was hindered by slow search performance and limitations in dashboarding capabilities.

Tekion evaluated various options, including Delta Lake and HBase, in search of faster data retrieval mechanisms: “We were looking for a solution which could ingest fast as well as allow us to retrieve individual transactions at a faster pace,” says Surtani. They found ClickHouse: “We saw the potential to revolutionize our data management processes,” he adds.
