---
source: blog
url: https://tekion.com/
topic: tekion-adopts-clickhouse-cloud-to-power-application-performance-and-metrics-monitoring
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

looking for a solution which could ingest fast as well as allow us to retrieve individual transactions at a faster pace,” says Surtani. They found ClickHouse: “We saw the potential to revolutionize our data management processes,” he adds.

## Proof of concept: Open\-Source or ClickHouse Cloud? [\#](/blog/tekion-adopts-clickhouse-cloud-to-power-application-performance-and-metrics-monitoring#proof-of-concept-open-source-or-clickhouse-cloud)

For the proof of concept (POC) evaluation, Tekion kicked off with open\-source ClickHouse and then transitioned to ClickHouse Cloud. Opting for open\-source initially is part of standard practice at Tekion, enabling the team to assess performance and cost\-effectiveness before committing to a cloud\-based solution: “This approach provides valuable insights into the benefits of migrating and bakes in informed decision\-making,” says Surtani. The POC uncovered exciting results – it found ClickHouse to be superior in handling large volumes of data: “We realized how good it was and the potential during basic POC, so expectations were high,” says Surtani, prompting Tekion to explore ClickHouse Cloud.

The ability to scale clusters without compromising performance or incurring additional overhead was compelling. While Tekion is more than capable of managing infrastructure independently, the team decided to focus team efforts on product development for customers, leaving the maintenance to ClickHouse (via ClickHouse Cloud). Plus, explains Surtani, “ClickHouse Cloud offers premium features above the open\- source route, such as dynamic scaling of clusters on the fly without the need for manual indexing, enhancing operational efficiency and scalability.” Ultimately, the combination of expert support, advanced features, and cost efficiency made ClickHouse Cloud the best choice for driving the organization forward.

> "ClickHouse Cloud has provided the capability to exceed performance objectives in a cost\-effective way."
> 
> Ved Surtani, VP, Engineering, Platform \& Architecture at Tekion

## ClickHouse Cloud at Tekion [\#](/blog/tekion-adopts-clickhouse-cloud-to-power-application-performance-and-metrics-monitoring#clickhouse-cloud-at-tekion)

Tekion has successfully integrated ClickHouse Cloud into both platforms mentioned above. In summer 2023 the system was handling approximately 200\+ terabytes of data, a number that continues to grow at pace with the customer base. Within the APM solution, ClickHouse Cloud is used for processing application metrics generated by containers. ClickHouse Cloud streamlines the ingestion process and enables computation of metrics and alerts, including custom metrics tailored to Tekion’s requirements. Tekion can retrieve individual transactions at a much faster pace, comprehensively debug, and analyze data in real\-time.
