---
source: blog
url: https://tekion.com/
topic: tekion-adopts-clickhouse-cloud-to-power-application-performance-and-metrics-monitoring
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

containers. ClickHouse Cloud streamlines the ingestion process and enables computation of metrics and alerts, including custom metrics tailored to Tekion’s requirements. Tekion can retrieve individual transactions at a much faster pace, comprehensively debug, and analyze data in real\-time.

Additionally, they’ve started to integrate ClickHouse Cloud into custom workflows, which are highly specialized and often lack predefined thresholds. These workflows handle critical operations, where swift detection and response to anomalies is the goal. By transitioning these workflows to ClickHouse Cloud, developers can ingest custom metrics directly which means prompt identification of irregularities and unexpected occurrences, plus a more rapid response time. “Despite the complexity involved we’ve adapted swiftly, and the transition has been smooth. We deactivated ATMs to only store data from a single day,” Surtani explains.

> "ClickHouse has proved to be a game\-changer, propelling us towards greater efficiency and effectiveness in managing our data infrastructure."
> 
> Ved Surtani, VP, Engineering, Platform \& Architecture at Tekion

## Top Benefits of using ClickHouse [\#](/blog/tekion-adopts-clickhouse-cloud-to-power-application-performance-and-metrics-monitoring#top-benefits-of-using-clickhouse)

## Storage Optimization [\#](/blog/tekion-adopts-clickhouse-cloud-to-power-application-performance-and-metrics-monitoring#storage-optimization)

ClickHouse drastically reduced Tekion storage requirements due to its market\-leading data compression capabilities. The data size for a two\-month period has been minimized from 27TB to just 2\.5TB \- a 10x reduction in storage.

## Ingestion Performance [\#](/blog/tekion-adopts-clickhouse-cloud-to-power-application-performance-and-metrics-monitoring#ingestion-performance)

Now, even during peak throughput of 1\.2 million records per minute with ClickHouse, Tekion can ingest without lag. They've eliminated instances where, previously and despite best efforts, a significant number of events were not successfully processed or recorded. What's more, the Spark resources required has reduced by 25% resulting in substantial cost savings. This means faster job execution times, and the ability to process larger datasets with the same infrastructure due to more efficient utilization of resources.

## Query Performance [\#](/blog/tekion-adopts-clickhouse-cloud-to-power-application-performance-and-metrics-monitoring#query-performance)
