---
source: blog
url: https://www.harvey.ai/
topic: one-step-ahead-how-harvey-uses-clickhouse-for-proactive-threat-detection
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

dig into network logs to uncover the source of the problem. "I challenge that notion" Mike says. "Not only can network logs be effective primary indicators of compromise, but they may actually beat host EDRs to the punch."

But harnessing network logs for proactive threat detection isn’t always easy. Upon joining Harvey, Mike’s first challenge was managing its massive volume of network data. The platform, powered by Azure NSG flow logs, produces 5\.4 TB of data daily, spanning 1\.5 million unique IP addresses and up to 40 million rows. As Mike notes, "We expect this data to grow proportional to our customer base \- so as Harvey gets more customers, this data will only go up."

Processing this volume in real time was challenging because the logs were stored in "block blob" format, which forced the team to traverse huge chunks of raw data before they could run meaningful queries. Each minute generated hundreds of thousands of log entries for just one service, resulting in a complex web of file paths that had to be navigated.

"At this volume, doing any sort of aggregate statistics and proactive detection becomes nearly impossible," Mike explains. Queries designed to identify potential threats, such as top talkers or traffic anomalies, were difficult to execute. "We just consistently met with timeouts or out\-of\-memory errors, no matter how hard we tried" he says.

### Get started today

Interested in seeing how ClickHouse works on your data? Get started with ClickHouse Cloud in minutes and receive $300 in free credits.

[Sign up](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog)
## A more scalable solution [\#](/blog/how-harvey-uses-clickhouse-for-proactive-threat-detection#a-more-scalable-solution)

To overcome these challenges, the Harvey AI team turned to [ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.com/cloud) and partnered with [RunReveal](https://runreveal.com/), a security analytics platform built on ClickHouse. The combination of ClickHouse’s high\-performance columnar database and RunReveal’s expertise allowed Harvey to completely restructure their approach to processing network logs.

As Mike explains, their optimization strategy involved selecting [primary indexes](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes) for key data points \- source IPs, destination IPs, and destination ports \- and using [materialized views](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/materialized-view) to pre\-compute aggregations. "By really understanding how we would use these logs, and by understanding the domain itself, we could carefully select the indexes we’d use in the materialized views to drive those efficiency gains," he says.
