---
source: blog
url: https://www.harvey.ai/
topic: one-step-ahead-how-harvey-uses-clickhouse-for-proactive-threat-detection
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

views](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/materialized-view) to pre\-compute aggregations. "By really understanding how we would use these logs, and by understanding the domain itself, we could carefully select the indexes we’d use in the materialized views to drive those efficiency gains," he says.

This approach has allowed the team to better track and compare network activity over time. "Combining these fields lets us effectively answer the question of who is doing what, and gives us quantifiable metrics to compare today to yesterday to the day before" Mike adds.

Along with improving query efficiency, ClickHouse's “compression capabilities (which Mike calls "absolutely nuts") played a key role. The 5\.4 TB of daily log data was compressed down to just 4\.55 GB, reducing the data footprint and enabling faster, real\-time processing. "I don’t know if anyone else besides ClickHouse could get us those numbers" Mike says.

With this new architecture in place, Harvey’s security team can run complex queries on network traffic patterns, detect anomalies, and proactively detect threats \- capabilities that would have been impossible before.

## Enrichment for better insights [\#](/blog/how-harvey-uses-clickhouse-for-proactive-threat-detection#enrichment-for-better-insights)

Beyond simply optimizing data storage and querying, the Harvey team has taken further steps to enrich their network logs with more meaningful, human\-readable labels. Tapping into the flexibility of ClickHouse’s query capabilities, they’ve mapped raw IP addresses to recognizable names, making it easier to understand network activity in real time.

"I was actually surprised by how seamlessly this worked with ClickHouse," Mike says. "I’ve tried doing similar enrichment in other systems, but they couldn’t handle the scale or complexity of our data without major slowdowns."

He says the enriched data gives the team a "really clear, high\-level snapshot of what our network looks like and the visibility across Harvey’s environment." By enriching the data, the team can quickly spot suspicious activity, such as unexpected traffic spikes or unusual port activity. The higher level of visibility has allowed the security team to not only monitor their network but also act on anomalies with greater confidence and precision.

This enrichment process has further simplified the task of detecting threats, helping Harvey’s security team move away from sifting through raw, indecipherable logs and focus on key patterns that point to genuine security concerns.

## Real\-time threat detection [\#](/blog/how-harvey-uses-clickhouse-for-proactive-threat-detection#real-time-threat-detection)
