---
source: blog
url: https://www.harvey.ai/
topic: one-step-ahead-how-harvey-uses-clickhouse-for-proactive-threat-detection
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

enrichment process has further simplified the task of detecting threats, helping Harvey’s security team move away from sifting through raw, indecipherable logs and focus on key patterns that point to genuine security concerns. ## Real\-time threat detection [\#](/blog/how-harvey-uses-clickhouse-for-proactive-threat-detection#real-time-threat-detection)

In cryptography and cybersecurity, [Alice and Bob](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alice_and_Bob) are traditionally used as the names of the two parties communicating, while Eve \- shorthand for "evil" or "eavesdropper" \- is the third\-party adversary or hacker trying to listen in or disrupt their communications.

> "On the security team at Harvey, we like to say that if we do our jobs well, and if we protect this perimeter from Evil Eve, we let all the brilliant people at Harvey do their jobs, and at the end of the day, we all get to drink Mai Tais on the beach. ClickHouse helps us do just that."
> 
> Mike Parowski

With the help of ClickHouse Cloud, Harvey has successfully transformed their network threat detection. What once seemed like an overwhelming flood of data is now a manageable, streamlined system capable of running real\-time detections on Harvey’s rapidly expanding network. The improvements in compression and query efficiency mean the team can stay ahead of security threats while maintaining the highest level of data protection.

The impact of these changes goes beyond simply managing data effectively. By optimizing their security operations, Harvey has ensured that their platform can scale securely, giving peace of mind to their internal teams and customers. As Harvey grows, Mike and the team are confident they have the tools to stay ahead of evolving threats, allowing them to focus on their core mission: revolutionizing the legal industry with cutting\-edge AI solutions.

To learn more about ClickHouse and see how it can improve the efficiency and scalability of your team’s data operations, [try ClickHouse Cloud free for 30 days](https://clickhouse.com/cloud).

**ClickHouse Cloud, powered by AWS**
