---
source: blog
url: https://www.m3ter.com/guides/usage-based-pricing
topic: why-m3ter-chose-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

The data plane, on the other hand, is more problematic. Customers can send hundreds of millions of usage "events" per month, so the overall data volume is very high. m3ter offers a variety of powerful features to customers:

- Elimination of duplicate usage data
- Ability to fix configuration errors and recalculate the current bill with the new configuration, without having to re\-ingest all the usage data
- Change pricing, end\-customer plans (e.g. moving from "production" to "enterprise" tier), etc. at any point in time, including midway through a billing period
- Deletion of usage data sent incorrectly by the customer, according to criteria specified by the customer (e.g. time range, type of usage data, etc.)
- Frequent updates of bills to show near\-realtime usage and cost
- Pricing experimentation \- the ability to rate usage against multiple configurations to determine the impact of proposed pricing changes

Many services that deal with large volumes of data will pre\-aggregate the data as it is received, so that later queries against the data actually operate against a smaller dataset. However, pre\-aggregation is not compatible with some of the above features. For example, in order to pre\-aggregate data, you need to know exactly how the data needs to be aggregated prior to any queries being run \- which can prevent changing the configuration and recalculating bills without having to re\-ingest the usage data (so that it can be pre\-aggregated again with the new configuration). In some cases, this is difficult or even impossible for customers (e.g. if the raw data hasn’t been retained) \- whereas with m3ter, it’s always possible because we retain the unaggregated data. When a "retrospective" configuration change is made, there is no need for the customer to re\-send the usage data.

Additionally, at m3ter we don’t want our engineers spending significant time on "undifferentiated heavy lifting" \- where possible, we prefer to use managed services, and that extends to our database and storage solutions.

These features lead to the following key requirements for our data plane storage solution:
