---
source: blog
url: https://www.m3ter.com/guides/usage-based-pricing
topic: why-m3ter-chose-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

significant time on "undifferentiated heavy lifting" \- where possible, we prefer to use managed services, and that extends to our database and storage solutions. These features lead to the following key requirements for our data plane storage solution:

- Usage data cannot be pre\-aggregated, i.e. must be stored unaggregated
- Frequent, fast, aggregation of large volumes of data using a variety of "configurations" (i.e. queries, which could change at any point in time for a given customer data set)
- Deletion of usage data according to criteria specified by customers
- Duplicate elimination
- Managed database service

## ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#clickhouse-cloud)

We’ll use the majority of this post to explore why we chose ClickHouse Cloud. Performance has been several orders of magnitude better than our previous solution could provide, and we’re achieving this at a significantly lower cost too!

Compared to our previous solution, we are currently achieving:

- 10x more ingested rows per second on average
- 17x more queries per second on average (27x at peak)

ClickHouse also achieves an impressive overall compression ratio of 11\.4x (i.e. every 1 TiB of "raw" data compresses to around 90 GiB on disk), which is significantly better than our previous solution (presumably due to better algorithms combined with columnar storage).

Despite this increased workload, queries run in under 100ms on average. To put this into perspective, our PoC tests showed that for one particular test, ClickHouse Cloud managed an average query duration of 144ms, while RedShift (scaled so that the cost of running it would be roughly the same as the ClickHouse deployment) came in significantly slower at 3927ms, a difference of \~27x. We still believe that RedShift is a fine tool, but it just isn't well\-suited to our particular workload.

This is all being achieved with an average resource usage of 10 vCPUs, and 25 GiB of memory. We can reasonably expect to scale to 10\-100x of our current workload before starting to hit the limits of an "off the shelf" deployment.

In terms of overall cost savings, the headline figure is that we are currently saving \~85% compared to our previous database solution for rating.
