---
source: blog
url: https://www.m3ter.com/guides/usage-based-pricing
topic: why-m3ter-chose-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

current workload before starting to hit the limits of an "off the shelf" deployment. In terms of overall cost savings, the headline figure is that we are currently saving \~85% compared to our previous database solution for rating.

We also save additional costs on engineering resources, due to ClickHouse Cloud being a managed service. For example, due to the fact that our ClickHouse Cloud deployment primarily stores data in S3 (providing near\-limitless, relatively cheap storage) we no longer have to spend time adjusting the amount of disk space available to the database.

We’ll now explore in detail how we arrived at choosing ClickHouse Cloud vs other possible solutions.

### Get started today

Interested in seeing how ClickHouse works on your data? Get started with ClickHouse Cloud in minutes and receive $300 in free credits.

[Sign up](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog)
## Comparison [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#comparison)

In order to choose which database would best fit our requirements, we undertook proof of concept (PoC) projects with several databases, which covered a range of technologies and features. Each of these was assessed against a set of criteria:

- Ability to store large volumes of data easily
- Sustain high rate of data ingest
- Eliminate duplicate data
- Ease of data ingest
- Query performance for highly concurrent, frequent, queries against large volumes of data
- Support for bulk data export
- Support for data deletion
- Ability to monitor both high\-level and low\-level performance
- Easily scalable with zero downtime
- High availability (HA) and Disaster recovery (DR)
- Overall cost of solution
- Miscellaneous other criteria

For some criteria, we defined initial targets to help us make impartial and unbiased comparisons. The targets we defined were minimum targets \- if a database failed to meet these minimums, it was discounted as a possible solution. Where possible, we pushed the database further, in a destructive load test, to see what kind of load we could expect to achieve.

The databases we identified for PoC testing were:

- ClickHouse Cloud
- Snowflake
- Firebolt
- Amazon Redshift
- Amazon Aurora (Postgres)
