---
source: blog
url: https://www.m3ter.com/guides/usage-based-pricing
topic: why-m3ter-chose-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

in a destructive load test, to see what kind of load we could expect to achieve. The databases we identified for PoC testing were: - ClickHouse Cloud - Snowflake - Firebolt - Amazon Redshift - Amazon Aurora (Postgres)

Note that we included Aurora in order to cover our bases. We didn’t particularly expect great performance from a row\-based OLTP database for the specific type of workload we would be running (which is more analytical in nature). In that sense, comparing the other options to Aurora felt unfair, since it’s targeted at a different use\-case, but we included it to give ourselves confidence that we had covered a range of database choices and technology.

When testing these solutions, we tried various table schemas and tried to take advantage of any unique features that they might offer to improve performance. It’s important to note that in many cases, there is a trade\-off \- for example, adding an index on a table might speed up queries, but slow down ingestion. Similarly, scaling a solution up to provide more hardware oomph can result in better performance, but at a higher cost.

In all cases, we used a fixed set of data and queries, representing our real\-world workloads. The source dataset was identical for all solutions. Queries varied slightly between solutions, due to the different schemas and features available, but in all cases we always queried for the same set of results for a fair comparison.

Let’s look at some of the highlights (and lowlights) of what we found.

## Storage Volume [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#storage-volume)

All of the above databases were capable of storing large quantities of data, which isn’t a great surprise since they are all (with the exception of Aurora) primarily designed to handle OLAP workloads. Services such as Aurora and Timescale scored lower for this criteria, because data is stored on traditional disks (e.g. SSDs). As the amount of data stored increases, we would have to scale up the service to provide more disk space. In contrast, services such as [ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.com/cloud) scored more highly, because they don’t carry this operational overhead \- data is offloaded to storage such as S3 automatically, and only the hot dataset is stored on local disks, meaning we wouldn’t have to worry about disks getting full.
