---
source: blog
url: https://www.m3ter.com/guides/usage-based-pricing
topic: why-m3ter-chose-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

highly, because they don’t carry this operational overhead \- data is offloaded to storage such as S3 automatically, and only the hot dataset is stored on local disks, meaning we wouldn’t have to worry about disks getting full.

We also found that data compression in some solutions was limited \- row\-based solutions didn’t exhibit the same compression ratios as some of the other candidates. Column\-based storage tends to achieve better compression ratios, because you’re compressing a column of data (rather than rows) at a time. Since all the data in a given column is typically similar, higher compression ratios can be achieved.

## Ingest [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#ingest)

For the configurations we tested, all of the candidates could meet the required target. However, we did note that Aurora started to slow down as the table grew, and internal maintenance operations started to consume more time and resources. We achieved up to \~100k rows per second with the Aurora configuration we tested against, which certainly isn’t bad for a row\-based OLTP database. However, this paled in comparison with some of the other solutions, which were all able to achieve much higher (e.g. 10x) rates. An additional concern here was that Aurora is only scalable (for writes) by scaling a single "writer" node up, whereas other solutions could be scaled horizontally and the workload potentially distributed across multiple nodes, which would allow a higher top\-end cap on this.

We did find that ingesting large batches of data into Firebolt took longer than we initially expected, in the sense that the ingest "query" took quite a long time to return an OK response to the client. This was explained to us as being various data integrity checks that Firebolt perform before the ingest request is deemed to be completed. (It’s also worth noting that we were told this would improve as it was being actively worked on \- so it’s entirely possible that at the time of writing, this has been improved). Whilst this didn’t affect the overall throughput, it did affect how fast data was actually available to be queried, so was a slight concern to us.
