---
source: blog
url: https://www.m3ter.com/guides/usage-based-pricing
topic: why-m3ter-chose-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

entirely possible that at the time of writing, this has been improved). Whilst this didn’t affect the overall throughput, it did affect how fast data was actually available to be queried, so was a slight concern to us.

One point worth mentioning is that at the time we assessed these services, Snowflake and Redshift offered the best ecosystem in terms of data ingest. For example, Snowflake offered Snowpipes which allow continual ingest from data streams, and Redshift offers similar integration with Kinesis streams. At that time, ClickHouse Cloud didn’t have an equivalent offering, so we had to write our own ETL and ingest pipelines. This has since changed, with the release of Clickpipes \- however, since these were not available at the time we performed our PoC, Snowflake scored highest in this regard.

## Duplicate Elimination [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#duplicate-elimination)

When customers send data, they can assign a unique ID (UID) to each measurement. This allows us to easily deal with scenarios such as network errors, where the customer isn’t certain if measurements they send were received by m3ter or not. By assigning a UID to each piece of data, it can be resent, safe in the knowledge that m3ter will de\-duplicate the data, and that usage won’t be double\-counted on bills.
