---
source: blog
url: https://www.m3ter.com/guides/usage-based-pricing
topic: why-m3ter-chose-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

send were received by m3ter or not. By assigning a UID to each piece of data, it can be resent, safe in the knowledge that m3ter will de\-duplicate the data, and that usage won’t be double\-counted on bills.

Traditional OLTP databases such as Aurora excel at this task \- a simple unique index on the UID field ensures that no duplicates can be inserted into the database. Other databases, such as ClickHouse Cloud, Snowflake, Firebolt and Redshift have limited support for this, due to the way they store and index data. Typically, some features are available to help with this \- for example, ClickHouse Cloud can remove duplicate rows when its [internal "merge" background process](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#mergetree-data-storage) runs. However, until this happens (and there is [no guarantee exactly](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/replacing-merge-tree#merge-behavior-considerations) when this will happen since it is an internal process), the duplicates exist on the database and would affect query results. (Note that in ClickHouse, a FINAL keyword can be included in the query to ensure deduplication at query time, but comes at the expense of query performance). For these systems, we would need to implement our own row\-level de\-duplication process before data is inserted into the database. This adds complexity and engineering overhead to any potential solution, and meant these systems received a lower score compared to Aurora.

## Query Performance [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#query-performance)

This was pretty mixed. As expected, row\-based solutions generally performed more poorly, with IO being the major bottleneck, because entire rows of data needed to be read from disk even if not every column of data was needed to fulfil the query.

Solutions such as ClickHouse Cloud and Snowflake performed well here \- we easily achieved our target, with sustained rates of hundreds of queries per second.
