---
source: blog
url: https://www.m3ter.com/guides/usage-based-pricing
topic: why-m3ter-chose-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

## Scaling [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#scaling) Many of the services tested offer automatic scaling based on workload. This was attractive to us, since we don’t want to spend our engineers' time monitoring the performance and scaling services up and down regularly.

In practice, sadly, we found that none of these were quite right for our use\-case, and in general are a bit trigger\-happy when scaling up (or out) to larger instances. For example, a workload which is generally fine but contains the occasional "big" query could trigger the service to think it needed more resources, when in reality we were OK with it just taking a little bit longer for 1% of queries. We believe this is a consequence of our fairly unique workload, and auto\-scaling would probably work very well for many people. Just not for us, sadly. Fortunately, ClickHouse Cloud offers a [scaling API](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/manage/scaling#horizontal-scaling-via-api) meaning that we could easily scale the service based on our own scaling algorithm and requirements.

Some services (such as Aurora) do offer a "serverless" option, where you are charged based on the number/duration of queries rather than by the deployed instance sizes. However, as is typical with these offerings, this becomes quite expensive quite quickly when running heavier workloads, and are better suited to smaller or spikier workloads. Our workload is both large and continuous, so in our particular case, serverless offerings don’t offer the best value for money and were therefore discounted.

## HA/DR [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#hadr)

There was relatively little to choose between services for this criteria. Nearly all of the candidates offered good HA, with instances deployed as clusters of nodes, into multiple AWS availability zones.

At the time of our testing, Redshift didn’t offer multi\-AZ configurations, although this feature was available in preview. Given we wanted to migrate ASAP, and multi\-AZ wasn’t available for general release at that time, Redshift scored lower on this point.

Similarly, DR was covered by backup strategies offered by all candidate systems, although some services such as ClickHouse Cloud, which stores all of the data in S3 (and copies hot data to fast local disks), have the additional benefit that S3 itself offers high reliability and redundancy out of the box, so the probability of encountering a DR scenario is reduced.

## Overall Cost [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#overall-cost)
