---
source: blog
url: https://www.m3ter.com/guides/usage-based-pricing
topic: why-m3ter-chose-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

(and copies hot data to fast local disks), have the additional benefit that S3 itself offers high reliability and redundancy out of the box, so the probability of encountering a DR scenario is reduced. ## Overall Cost [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#overall-cost)

Balancing the competing requirements, e.g. ingest rate vs. query performance, means that it’s difficult to assess which service truly offers the best "value for money". This is where our initial targets proved their worth again. We tested each service at the fixed target rate of ingest and query throughput, and scaled each service down to the smallest configuration which could hit those targets.

When assessing this criteria, we had to account for both compute and storage costs. We calculated storage costs for a fixed data set which represented the amount of data we need to store in our production environment.

ClickHouse Cloud was the clear winner here, being significantly cheaper in terms of raw performance per dollar spent, when scaled to the minimum configuration needed to hit our targets.

## Miscellaneous [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#miscellaneous)

As well as the above, we also considered criteria such as which regions the service could be deployed to, ease of deployment via infrastructure as code (IaC), SOC accreditation, data encryption, database schema evolution, etc. As expected, different databases scored differently for these criteria, but none fared so badly that we weren’t prepared to accept any additional effort if it turned out to be the best solution otherwise.

For example, AWS services like Aurora and Redshift came out top in areas such as number of regions they supported, and support for IaC (e.g. CloudFormation), but other services offered enough (either in terms of automated deployments, or management APIs so that we could automate it ourselves, or a very simple manual deployment process) that this was acceptable to us.

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/why-m3ter-clickhouse-cloud#conclusion)

Taking everything into account, we found that for our specific workload, ClickHouse Cloud on AWS provided both the best performance, and best value for money. More subjective criteria (where differences between implementations in each service make direct comparisons difficult), such as monitoring, HA/DR, scaling etc. also scored highly for ClickHouse Cloud.
