---
source: blog
url: https://www.m3ter.com/guides/usage-based-pricing
topic: why-m3ter-chose-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

on AWS provided both the best performance, and best value for money. More subjective criteria (where differences between implementations in each service make direct comparisons difficult), such as monitoring, HA/DR, scaling etc. also scored highly for ClickHouse Cloud.

We felt this was a database service we could work with easily on a day\-to\-day basis. The UI for the cloud offering was easy to use, and user management allowed sensible controls to be put in place so that various users/services can only perform the required actions (principle of least privilege).

Additionally, ClickHouse is a mature database that is used by lots of customers, giving us faith that we were unlikely to encounter any unwelcome surprises. In our experience during the PoC, the support and advice we received from them was first class, giving us real confidence that if we did encounter any issues, we wouldn’t be left trying to solve them on our own.

After implementing ClickHouse Cloud as our primary database for usage data, we have been very happy with our choice. We haven’t experienced any particular pain points, and investigating performance (e.g. for new features) has been easy thanks to the detailed monitoring available. The per\-query metrics in the [query\_log table](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/system-tables/query_log) have been almost invaluable, since we can query that data using standard SQL, just like data in any other table.

ClickHouse Cloud is very much designed for "real\-time analytics" which is exactly what we need at m3ter for our usage data workload. We do use a variety of other databases for different use\-cases, so it’s not a case of "one size fits all". As with most complex services, using a mix of databases and technologies, and choosing the "best in class" for each distinct use\-case, usually yields the best results. In our case, our proof of concept tests determined that ClickHouse Cloud was the current "best in class" for our rating engine.

**ClickHouse Cloud, powered by AWS**
