---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud/postgres
topic: making-large-postgres-migrations-practical-1tb-in-2-hours-with-peerdb
ch_version_introduced: '27.175'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

in the binary format, no such transformations are necessary. Preserving data in its native binary representation minimizes the risk of type mismatches or precision issues, ensuring a **predictable and seamless cutover** when application traffic switches to the target.

## Efficient and reliable CDC [\#](/blog/practical-postgres-migrations-at-scale-peerdb#efficient-and-reliable-cdc)

Once the initial snapshot is complete, the system transitions to continuous change data capture (CDC) to **keep the source and target in sync until cutover.** This phase is critical for minimizing downtime and maintaining consistency under ongoing write load.

In this section, we’ll look at two key engineering considerations: efficient replication slot consumption and reducing replication overhead, particularly for large or complex row structures.

### Reading the replication slot [\#](/blog/practical-postgres-migrations-at-scale-peerdb#reading-the-replication-slot)

Consuming the replication slot is crucial when it comes to sustaining high\-throughput ingestion workloads, where falling behind in replication lag can be detrimental to the source Postgres instance’s storage due to a heavy slot – which can only be recovered from via a full resync via dropping the slot.

PeerDB **reuses a single replication connection** across its sync batches, ensuring the replication slot is always active. It includes periodic sending of status standby updates to Postgres to avoid replication timeouts being hit.

It is also architected in a way where pulling data from source and pushing data to destination are independent processes, so failures on the push side will not hinder slot consumption.

PeerDB offers **replication slot lag alerting features** out of the box via Slack and Email, ensuring that there is no scope for outages or surprises for your business workloads.

### Support for unchanged TOAST columns [\#](/blog/practical-postgres-migrations-at-scale-peerdb#support-for-unchanged-toast-columns)

[TOAST](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/storage-toast.html) is PostgreSQL's mechanism for handling large field values. During Change Data Capture (CDC) using Postgres’ default logical decoding plugin \- `pgoutput` \- unchanged TOAST columns aren't included in the replication stream and appear as `NULL` values, which can be problematic during data migration. This is one of the [common pitfalls](https://blog.peerdb.io/overcoming-pitfalls-of-postgres-logical-decoding#heading-toast-columns-need-replica-identity-full) of logical decoding users.This can be addressed by setting `REPLICA IDENTITY FULL` on the source tables. However, this is often a concern for users as it requires modifying the source database.
