---
source: blog
url: https://gist.github.com/gingerwizard/5a9a87a39ba93b422d8640d811e269e9
topic: clickhouse-release-25-1
ch_version_introduced: '24.12'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 12
---

2\)**, … - for **hash table instance \#3**, the threads only fill **bucket \#3**, **bucket \#`N` \+ 3**, **bucket \#(`N` \* 2 \+ 3\)**, … - and so on… To achieve this, each processing thread runs a loop:

1. Load the next unprocessed block of rows from the right table.
2. Apply an `insert hash function` (yellow in the diagram) to the join keys of each row, then take the result modulo `256` to determine the target bucket number.
3. Take the target bucket number from step 2 modulo the number of threads to determine the target two\-level hash table instance.
4. Use the result of the `insert hash function` from step 1 as the key to ② insert the row data into the selected bucket number of the selected two\-level hash table instance.
5. Repeat from Step 1\.

Filling the buckets of the `N` two\-level hash table instances without overlap during the build phase enables efficient (constant\-time) ③ merging of these `N` instances into a single shared two\-level hash table. This is efficient because merging simply involves placing all filled buckets into a new two\-level hash table container without the need to combine entries across buckets.

In the ④ **probe phase**, all `N` processing threads can then read from this shared two\-level hash table concurrently, just like in the non\-parallel hash join. Each processing thread runs a loop:

1. Load the next unprocessed block of rows from the left table.
2. Apply the same `insert hash function` used in the build phase (yellow in the diagram) to the join keys of each row, then take the result modulo 256 to determine the bucket number for the lookup in the shared two\-level hash table.
3. Perform a ⑤ lookup in the selected bucket.
4. If the lookup succeeds and the join key values match, ⑥ return the joined rows.
5. Repeat from Step 1\.

Note that compared to the previous implementation, only a single hash function is now used in both the build and probe phases instead of two. The indirection introduced by the two\-level hash table requires only lightweight modulo operations.

To showcase the new parallel hash join's speed improvements, we first run a synthetic test on an AWS EC2 m6i.8xlarge instance with 32 vCPUs and 128 GiB RAM.
