---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/31182
topic: memory-overcommiter-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '22.8'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# Memory Overcommiter \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Setup \& maintenance](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/)
2. Memory Overcommiter
# Memory Overcommiter

Enable Memory overcommiter instead of ussing `max_memory_usage` per query## Memory Overcommiter

From version 22\.2\+ [ClickHouse® was updated with enhanced Memory overcommit capabilities](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/31182)
. In the past, queries were constrained by the `max_memory_usage` setting, imposing a rigid limitation. Users had the option to increase this limit, but it came at the potential expense of impacting other users during a single query. With the introduction of Memory overcommit, more memory\-intensive queries can now execute, granted there are ample resources available. When the [server reaches its maximum memory limit](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#max_server_memory_usage)
, ClickHouse identifies the most overcommitted queries and attempts to terminate them. It’s important to note that the terminated query might not be the one causing the condition. If it’s not, the query will undergo a waiting period to allow the termination of the high\-memory query before resuming its execution. This setup ensures that low\-memory queries always have the opportunity to run, while more resource\-intensive queries can execute during server idle times when resources are abundant. Users have the flexibility to fine\-tune this behavior at both the server and user levels.

If the memory overcommitter is not being used you’ll get something like this:

```
Received exception from server (version 22.8.20):
Code: 241. DB::Exception: Received from altinity.cloud:9440. DB::Exception: Received from chi-replica1-2-0:9000. DB::Exception: Memory limit (for query) exceeded: would use 5.00 GiB (attempt to allocate chunk of 4196736 bytes), maximum: 5.00 GiB. OvercommitTracker decision: Memory overcommit isn't used. OvercommitTracker isn't set.: (avg_value_size_hint = 0, avg_chars_size = 1, limit = 8192): while receiving packet from chi-replica1-1-0:9000: While executing Remote. (MEMORY_LIMIT_EXCEEDED)

```
So to enable Memory Overcommit you need to get rid of the `max_memory_usage` and `max_memory_usage_for_user` (set them to 0\) and configure overcommit specific settings (**usually defaults are ok, so read carefully the documentation**)

- `memory_overcommit_ratio_denominator`: It represents soft memory limit on the user level. This value is used to compute query overcommit ratio.
- `memory_overcommit_ratio_denominator_for_user`: It represents soft memory limit on the global level. This value is used to compute query overcommit ratio.
- `memory_usage_overcommit_max_wait_microseconds`: Maximum time thread will wait for memory to be freed in the case of memory overcommit. If timeout is reached and memory is not freed, exception is thrown

Please check [https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/memory\-overcommit](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/memory-overcommit)
