---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-query-level.md)#
topic: query-level-session-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

# Query\-level Session Settings \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Settings](/docs/operations/settings)- Query\-level Session Settings
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-query-level.md)# Query\-level Session Settings

## Overview[​](#overview "Direct link to Overview")

There are multiple ways to run statements with specific settings.
Settings are configured in layers, and each subsequent layer redefines the previous values of a setting.

## Order of priority[​](#order-of-priority "Direct link to Order of priority")

The order of priority for defining a setting is:

1. Applying a setting to a user directly, or within a settings profile

	- SQL (recommended)
	- adding one or more XML or YAML files to `/etc/clickhouse-server/users.d`
2. Session settings

	- Send `SET setting=value` from the ClickHouse Cloud SQL console or
	`clickhouse client` in interactive mode. Similarly, you can use ClickHouse
	sessions in the HTTP protocol. To do this, you need to specify the
	`session_id` HTTP parameter.
3. Query settings

	- When starting `clickhouse client` in non\-interactive mode, set the startup
	parameter `--setting=value`.
	- When using the HTTP API, pass CGI parameters (`URL?setting_1=value&setting_2=value...`).
	- Define settings in the
	[SETTINGS](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select#settings-in-select-query)
	clause of the SELECT query. The setting value is applied only to that query
	and is reset to the default or previous value after the query is executed.

## Converting a setting to its default value[​](#converting-a-setting-to-its-default-value "Direct link to Converting a setting to its default value")

If you change a setting and would like to revert it back to its default value, set the value to `DEFAULT`. The syntax looks like:

```
SET setting_name = DEFAULT

```

For example, the default value of `async_insert` is `0`. Suppose you change its value to `1`:

```
SET async_insert = 1;

SELECT value FROM system.settings where name='async_insert';

```

The response is:

```
┌─value──┐
│ 1      │
└────────┘

```

The following command sets its value back to 0:

```
SET async_insert = DEFAULT;

SELECT value FROM system.settings where name='async_insert';

```

The setting is now back to its default:

```
┌─value───┐
│ 0       │
└─────────┘

```

## Custom settings[​](#custom_settings "Direct link to Custom settings")

In addition to the common [settings](/docs/operations/settings/settings), users can define custom settings.
Custom settings enable you to pass **session\-specific parameters** that can be referenced within queries, policies, or functions. This is useful when you need to:
