---
source: blog
url: https://www.techscience.com/cmc/v78n1/55370
topic: buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

fuzzing helps identify edge cases that might otherwise go unnoticed during standard testing. It’s widely used to improve the robustness and security of software, from operating systems to compilers and databases. ## Why fuzzing databases is hard [\#](/blog/buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse#why-fuzzing-databases-is-hard)

A database is a complex system encompassing query processing and optimization, data storage, buffer management, and, for cases such as ClickHouse, distributed processing over multiple nodes. With such a level of complexity, building a fuzzer to test a database is no simple task. At the same time, attempting to test all the layers of a database system becomes more challenging because more diversified inputs are required.

### How to generate queries? [\#](/blog/buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse#how-to-generate-queries)

We can start by looking at the top\-most layer, ie input client’s query parsing and processing. Most databases, including ClickHouse, use SQL as their input language, and most database fuzzers are developed to produce SQL queries. The very first design question is how we are going to generate queries. Some fuzzers do it completely randomly, while others use a backlog strategy in mind. While both approaches are correct, depending on the chosen approach, some cases won’t be generated, and some bugs may not be found. Let’s take a look at [TPC\-H](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/tpch) Q5 as an example:

```

```
1SELECT
2    n_name,
3    sum(l_extendedprice * (1 - l_discount)) AS revenue
4FROM
5    customer,
6    orders,
7    lineitem,
8    supplier,
9    nation,
10    region
11WHERE
12    c_custkey = o_custkey
13    AND l_orderkey = o_orderkey
14    AND l_suppkey = s_suppkey
15    AND c_nationkey = s_nationkey
16    AND s_nationkey = n_nationkey
17    AND n_regionkey = r_regionkey
18    AND r_name = 'ASIA'
19    AND o_orderdate >= DATE '1994-01-01'
20    AND o_orderdate < DATE '1994-01-01' + INTERVAL '1' year
21GROUP BY
22    n_name
23ORDER BY
24    revenue DESC;
```


```

When users write such a query, they expect all tables and columns to be valid. However, if the fuzzer only generates valid identifiers, bugs from inexisting tables and columns will never be found.
