---
source: blog
url: https://www.techscience.com/cmc/v78n1/55370
topic: buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

24 revenue DESC; ``` ``` When users write such a query, they expect all tables and columns to be valid. However, if the fuzzer only generates valid identifiers, bugs from inexisting tables and columns will never be found.

Another interesting case here is the grouping case. SQL has complex semantics that make random query generation harder. In this case, we must make sure the projection either uses the `n_name` column or any other column inside an aggregate function to be correct. Other rules may also be applied, such as not using aggregates in WHERE clause and window functions cannot be inside aggregate functions. With these semantics in mind, it becomes difficult to generate correct queries randomly. If we take these restrictions, we will decrease the domain of queries generated, plus the number of bugs we can potentially find.

Some statements, such as DROP and DETACH, make tables unavailable. The fuzzer should potentially be aware of this to use valid tables in queries. We can keep track of changes made by these statements, but later, it becomes complex to handle this information when more features are added, such as SQL views that may depend on tables.

As we add more features to be tested, e.g. SQL functions, SQL query clauses, SQL types, number of tables/columns/databases to use, other statements such as INSERT or OPTIMIZE in ClickHouse, or more table engines, the number of combinations will increase sharply. This becomes a relevant issue when we attempt to generate correct queries or test a new feature in the fuzzer. As I said before, we can either try to avoid these errors and restrict the generated domain or ignore them and improve query correctness. In BuzzHouse I try to generate the correct output for most cases while fallbacking to the random case a few times.

### Finding wrong results [\#](/blog/buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse#finding-wrong-results)

With current state\-of\-the\-art research, we can find queries with wrong results in BuzzHouse which is not possible in other fuzzers such as SQLsmith. The strategies include:
