---
source: blog
url: https://www.techscience.com/cmc/v78n1/55370
topic: buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

to the random case a few times. ### Finding wrong results [\#](/blog/buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse#finding-wrong-results) With current state\-of\-the\-art research, we can find queries with wrong results in BuzzHouse which is not possible in other fuzzers such as SQLsmith. The strategies include:

- Dump a table and read it back again, so we can test formats as well.
- Run and compare equivalent queries using an oracle. This strategy was pioneered by SQLancer.
- Run the same query with different settings, such as the number of threads, enable/disable external sorting or grouping, or set a different join algorithm.
- Swap tables with a table from another relational database, then push predicates into it, and then compare computation results with either the same ordering clause or a global aggregate query.

The following issue was found after dumping and re\-inserting values into a table. The block order was different after the insert, thus impacting sorting with the `LowCardinality` type.

```

```
1SET allow_suspicious_low_cardinality_types = 1;
2CREATE TABLE t0 (c0 LowCardinality(Nullable(Int))) ENGINE = MergeTree()
3ORDER BY (c0) SETTINGS allow_nullable_key = 1;
4INSERT INTO TABLE t0 (c0) VALUES (1);
5INSERT INTO TABLE t0 (c0) VALUES (0), (NULL);
6SELECT c0 FROM t0 ORDER BY c0 DESC NULLS LAST;
7-- 1
8-- NULL
9-- 0
```


```

### Use code coverage? [\#](/blog/buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse#use-code-coverage)

Current state\-of\-the\-art techniques in fuzzers such as AFL and libFuzzer use code coverage to find new code paths while fuzzing. This sounds promising at first, but with the complexity of databases, finding new paths becomes increasingly more difficult. First, the SQL language has many semantics to follow as explained above. Second, many issues require more inputs, such as multiple clients or server restarts. Third, code coverage fuzzing becomes much slower, and due to each mutation doing a small change to a query at each loop, the diversity of queries generated is much lower. At the same time, it’s advised to backup the generated corpus to continue the same session later. In BuzzHouse, we decided not to use code coverage at the moment to complement existing fuzzers with this feature.

### Frequency of events [\#](/blog/buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse#frequency-of-events)
