---
source: blog
url: https://www.techscience.com/cmc/v78n1/55370
topic: buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

time, it’s advised to backup the generated corpus to continue the same session later. In BuzzHouse, we decided not to use code coverage at the moment to complement existing fuzzers with this feature. ### Frequency of events [\#](/blog/buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse#frequency-of-events)

The next important decision is the randomness of the events. Every decision a fuzzer performs will be based on probabilities. Conforming to the probabilities set, the fuzzer gets restricted to the possibility of events it can generate. Let’s take an example for the case a fuzzer has to choose the next query to generate:

- 10% chance to create a table.
- 50% chance to run a SELECT query (these happen more often in analytical databases so we should generate more).
- 20% chance to insert into a table.
- 5% to drop a table.
- 5% to delete from a table (a lightweight delete in ClickHouse).
- 10% for an ALTER statement.

This probability chart may sound plausible, however, at every 20 queries, one DROP statement will be generated. What is the consequence of this? Due to the number of combinations, a DROP statement has a higher chance of succeeding than a CREATE TABLE. There’s also a possibility to drop all the tables in the catalog, while none is created. Furthermore, it becomes difficult to do long\-term testing on a table that persists on the server while many INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE statements are issued over time. These small decisions may impact what the fuzzer will ever be capable of doing.

## Designing a fuzzer for ClickHouse [\#](/blog/buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse#designing-a-fuzzer-for-clickhouse)

Besides everything mentioned above, there are other design decisions when building a fuzzer. Here are some questions and what was implemented:
