---
source: blog
url: https://www.techscience.com/cmc/v78n1/55370
topic: buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

impact what the fuzzer will ever be capable of doing. ## Designing a fuzzer for ClickHouse [\#](/blog/buzzhouse-bridging-the-database-fuzzing-gap-for-testing-clickhouse#designing-a-fuzzer-for-clickhouse) Besides everything mentioned above, there are other design decisions when building a fuzzer. Here are some questions and what was implemented:

- Should many clients run in parallel? If so, how to synchronize between them? At the moment, only a single client in BuzzHouse.
- All the fuzzers run on the client side. What about fuzzing the server? Use a separate fuzzer for the server.
- Not all the issues are about crashes, we have to look for wrong results in queries, the quality of error messages, and performance. BuzzHouse detects some wrong results. For performance, later we can benchmark consecutive query runs and compare them.
- By looking at TPC\-H Q5, what should the size of the queries generated by the fuzzer be? How many tables should we join? Look at cross\-products, they generate large intermediates and turn the fuzzer slower. BuzzHouse has “depth” and “width” parameters that can be tuned for this.
- For how long should a fuzzer keep a table in the catalog on average? What about updating the table metadata? BuzzHouse will always keep at least 3 tables in the catalog. Alter statements run for every table except for the ones with peers in other databases.
- Look at error messages, some bugs output strange error messages instead of crashing the server. Also sometimes an error message may be right or wrong. In the future, we could keep a list of expected error messages to be thrown by the server.
- For slow queries, which ones are legitimately slow and which aren’t? This is a difficult question to answer. However, we can compare the performance with other databases.

Taking all the points above, it becomes very difficult to build a fuzzer that will cover all the cases, and then find all existing issues. Making a simple design decision will impact what the fuzzer will be capable of generating.

BuzzHouse attempts to generate the most correct queries as possible by using syntax assumptions such as:

- Always generate the correct number of arguments for a function.
- Use columns from tables present in queries.
- Back up the catalog with CREATE/ALTER/DROP changes.
- Keep query syntax always correct.
