---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayesian_inference
topic: agentic-coding-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

questions, and doing several approaches, finally it thought for one hour, and made a one\-line change, with full explanation and tests. This is probably the most expensive line of code, but still its cost is less than $30!

In one approach, I was using both Claude and Codex, and they challenged each other's reasoning. I've tuned all settings to the maximum, and explicitly asked them to analyze all previous approaches, analyze plenty of CI logs, prove every hypothesis, and similar. It made a lot of false but convincing hypotheses in the process, and it required a ton of pre\-existing knowledge and experience of an engineer to filter through them. Even though it produced a few initial fixes that solved other problems, at first try it did not address the root cause.

There is a lot of confidence that with the final attempt we fixed the bug, but we will have to wait a few more months and billions of test invocations (under stress tests and fuzzing) to confirm if the fix is final.

### Investigating trivial bugs [\#](/blog/agentic-coding#investigating-trivial-bugs)

I've noticed that for a period of time, we didn't receive reports from one of our test suites, which was suspicious for me (our code is not perfect). I've asked a question to our CI team on Slack. But it was Sunday, so everyone in the team was sleeping, and after a while, I asked the same question to Claude.

It found that the stress test was always reporting success due to a [trivial mistake in the code](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/95081). The mistake itself (forgotten if or break) was clearly human... which also proves the point: agents type and review code better than we do!

After fixing the stress test, it opened a floodgate of findings that accumulated over time when it was ineffective, and I had to use agents to fix all these bugs.

### Investigating incidents [\#](/blog/agentic-coding#investigating-incidents)

Agents are good at reading logs and checking hypotheses. The logs don't have to be in files, they can use ClickHouse perfectly, and we store all our logs, metrics, and traces in ClickHouse!

Here is a quote from an on\-call engineer:
