---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayesian_inference
topic: agentic-coding-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

at reading logs and checking hypotheses. The logs don't have to be in files, they can use ClickHouse perfectly, and we store all our logs, metrics, and traces in ClickHouse! Here is a quote from an on\-call engineer:

> I'm using claude heavily (I hope there isn't a credit limit), finding its limits and learning when and how to push back. In general, I feel I'm much faster at the initial investigation (doing in a day what would take me 3\-4 days), but once it has a theory, you need to keep asking it to prove it with data and logs, and then review it and push again because it often cannot back them or is wrong.

There are a few caveats, though:

1. We can't feed all the logs to model providers, even taking into account the providers' zero data retention policy. We can do it for general infrastructure logs, but typically not for server logs from customer services. First of all, logs have to be carefully anonymized, and only non\-sensitive parts can be processed by models. But even trends of metrics of a customer service can be sensitive data, so we can't feed it to models unless explicitly approved.

Note: We use self\-hosted Qwen for very limited scenarios.

2. The success of the investigation heavily depends on the qualifications of the engineer. Agents will produce many plausible and wrong hypotheses, which you have to reject first. This is very hard work, but it can be invisible and even dismissed.

To put it simply, an SRE can investigate a production problem successfully with agents, while a VP will take the wrong hypotheses and fail to solve the customer's problem.

### Fixing flaky tests [\#](/blog/agentic-coding#fixing-flaky-tests)

Every day, ClickHouse CI runs about [20 to 80 million tests in 600 commits and 300 pull requests on average](https://play.clickhouse.com/play?user=play#U0VMRUNUIGNoZWNrX3N0YXJ0X3RpbWU6OkRhdGUgQVMgZCwgY291bnQoKSwgdW5pcShjb21taXRfc2hhKSwgdW5pcShwdWxsX3JlcXVlc3RfbnVtYmVyKSBGUk9NIGNoZWNrcwpXSEVSRSBkID49IHRvZGF5KCkgLSBJTlRFUlZBTCAxIE1PTlRICkdST1VQIEJZIGQgT1JERVIgQlkgZCBERVND). It contains various test suite runs across many build configurations, as well as randomized testing with fuzzers and stress tests. ClickHouse CI is my source of pride, and in my opinion, it is the most important thing for ClickHouse development.
