---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayesian_inference
topic: agentic-coding-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 15
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

be the case. We don't allow unreviewed code in the main ClickHouse codebase. But we have a lot of vibe\-coded internal tools and [small applications](https://presentations.clickhouse.com/). Anything with limited security and infrastructure exposure is a valid target for vibe\-coding.

The quality of vibe\-coded tools also differs. Some people will be happy with a one\-shot page, even if it is half\-working and the design is distasteful (the default Claude design is very recognizable). Some will make hundreds of prompts to polish and validate the product, provide creative ways of automated testing, and this is inevitable for high\-quality, because agents tend to cut corners.

My friend uses [AI World Clocks](https://clocks.brianmoore.com/) as an example of the case against vibe\-coding, but it is mostly a joke (as a simple correction of the prompt by asking an agent to take a screenshot gives perfect results).

A question for the reader: why do you think we use agentic coding, but don't use vibe\-coding for the ClickHouse server?

### Getting colleagues to do what you want [\#](/blog/agentic-coding#getting-colleagues-to-do-what-you-want)

This is one of my favorites. Often, you want something to be done, but when you ask colleagues in Slack, they say they will discuss planning at the next weekly meeting after the vacation and create a Linear ticket. Which means no one will do it ever.

In this case, you can prototype the change using an agent, submit to their repository, and ask for review. In my experience, this greatly accelerates the progress!

One example: I was traveling on a train, and when I opened ClickHouse documentation, I noticed that the search bar does not work \- when I clicked it, it did nothing, not even let me type. First, I asked in Slack. After a few minutes, I asked an agent. The agent told me that the search bar works only after loading 25 MB of JavaScript bundles. Then it told me something about React hydration, which I have no clue about, and then it [fixed the problem](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/pull/5326).

(The question is \- why does it load 25 MB of JavaScript? If our docs were vibe\-coded, I would understand that, but they are not vibe\-coded. It is just how JavaScript is.)
