---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayesian_inference
topic: agentic-coding-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

editor, or even like your keyboard. Use it to do what you want. **AI is a multiplier \- good engineers will be good with AI, mediocre engineers will feel no difference, and bad engineers will do more harm**.

**Start with small tasks, gradually learn to trust it with bigger ones**. Current AI models are still very limited, and you need to get an intuition about what is reasonable to do with agents, and what is not possible. But be ready to re\-evaluate your expectations when, hopefully, better frontier models will be released. It is okay to have low expectations and gradually increase them based on results. This is also a good path for AI skeptics, because trying to solve large and complex tasks will only reconfirm the skepticism.

**Always find a way to validate every change. Use more tests.** Use more ways of testing. At ClickHouse, we are privileged to get maximum results thanks to our efforts in CI and testing.

**Try the latest models. For hard tasks, try multiple providers in parallel.** Question it and push for better solutions in a loop.

**Save guidelines to CLAUDE.md / AGENTS.md.** This might be controversial. Do not add too much content to instructions (if you do, models will just ignore most of it), do not say what not to do (models are like kids, they will do what you asked not to do), and don't over\-complicate things (the models are smart, give a little trust).

**Save common tasks into skills and tools.** For example, tech models how to look at the history of tests and how to search in log databases.

**Use it not only for code.** CLI agents are way more versatile, try it for various everyday things.

**Complete specification and over\-specification.** When you write in a programming language, you specify precisely what you want. When you work with an agent, you don't have to \- but it is totally okay to say what you want as precisely as possible \- it will make results better, and we still have engineering skills for this precise specification.
