---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayesian_inference
topic: agentic-coding-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 18
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

with an agent, you don't have to \- but it is totally okay to say what you want as precisely as possible \- it will make results better, and we still have engineering skills for this precise specification.

**Read code and agent responses and their thought process, and especially, plans.** Using an agent means you have to read a lot, and think a lot, and there are no shortcuts for that, and it will be exhausting. But as soon as you feel like you don't have energy to work with an agent, just stop \- otherwise the results will be disastrous.

**Do follow\-up questions, challenge the approach and solutions.**

**Run multiple sessions in parallel.** But not too much. I think five agents are enough. With the current models, agents working in a C\+\+ code base require corrections and hand\-holding, typically every ten minutes, and you have to pay this attention somehow.

**Run unattended sessions on isolated virtual machines.** This is in controversy with the above, but it makes sense for certain tasks, for autonomous experiments, prototyping, and optimization, for finishing the final stages of the work.

**Keep in hand at least two different tools with different model providers.** Model providers are the most unreliable type of service as of today, with downtimes approximately every day. This is understandable due to the explosion of demand, and I admire the fact that they even survive. Be prepared.

**Be polite and calm, don't trash\-talk, and don't insult agents.** If you insult these precious, nice models, I will be ashamed of you. No, just kidding \- LLMs don't have consciousness or feelings (supposedly). But I have two real reasons to advise you not to be rude to models. Firstly, models emulate human behavior too well: when you are too assertive in communication, do insults and threats, the model will try to correct the mistakes, whatever it takes, and sometimes the only way will be: deleting your home directory and wiping production infrastructure. The second reason is that if you communicate badly, even with an inanimate object, you exhibit wrong behavior and become a worse person.

## AI in open\-source [\#](/blog/agentic-coding#ai-in-open-source)
