---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayesian_inference
topic: agentic-coding-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 19
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

will be: deleting your home directory and wiping production infrastructure. The second reason is that if you communicate badly, even with an inanimate object, you exhibit wrong behavior and become a worse person. ## AI in open\-source [\#](/blog/agentic-coding#ai-in-open-source)

You may have noticed that GitHub is frequently down. This happens because every AI lab is ripping it apart by downloading everything they can get from GitHub, and a huge number of autonomous agents are also ripping it apart by trying to autonomously do no one knows what.

We are also experiencing a large influx of contributions to ClickHouse, with varying quality. ClickHouse has been open\-source for almost ten years, and working with contributors is an inherent part of our job. We owe a lot to contributors and users who provide feedback, and I know that even a draft or a halfway implementation has its value, even if not merged.

One year ago, it was often the case when I received a pull request with low\-quality code, often totally out of place, which made me suspect that maybe the contributor used AI, so that's why the code is so bad. This year, it's a different situation: when I receive a pull request with low\-quality code containing typos in variables, trivial mistakes in memory management, and race conditions, it makes me suspect that maybe the contributor forgot to use AI agents to write this code. Because coding agents make the bottom quality level of the code much higher.

I decided to make an [AI policy](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/master/AI_POLICY.md) for ClickHouse that fully embraces AI use and supports any legitimate experiments and research on the ClickHouse codebase.

Modern AI models work so well on the ClickHouse code because it is open\-source, and they were trained directly on our code and issues. For example, Claude generates command\-line parameters to `clickhouse-client` that no longer exist, neither in the code nor in the documentation, but existed one year ago. It also tries to insert a terminating zero byte to strings, which I [removed everywhere in last August](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/85063) during a large refactoring. This means \- if you are a database developer and write another database with coding agents, they will likely make it in the way ClickHouse is made.
