---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayesian_inference
topic: agentic-coding-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 21
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

looking over the shoulder of the agent's work. But there is a real possibility that many people will use agents lazily, like a slot machine. ### Heavy adoption of AI may deteriorate the quality of the product. [\#](/blog/agentic-coding#heavy-adoption-of-ai-may-deteriorate-the-quality-of-the-product)

AI provides a lot of ways to improve the quality. The easiest way is to refrain from using it for developing new features and large chunks of code. Use it for investigating bugs, researching hypotheses, conducting stringent code reviews, adding more tests, adding more ways of testing, finding edge cases, etc. To keep the quality bar high, you have to put the vast majority of work, including AI output, towards quality assurance.

### Excessive usage of AI may lead to AI\-induced psychosis. [\#](/blog/agentic-coding#excessive-usage-of-ai-may-lead-to-ai-induced-psychosis)

This is [very real](https://steve-yegge.medium.com/the-ai-vampire-eda6e4f07163). I'm not a therapist, so don't take these words authoritatively, but I can highlight three types of AI psychosis:

1. [Chatbot psychosis](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chatbot_psychosis). The case when delusions are reinforced or amplified by chatbots.
2. **AI mania**. When using coding agents, many things appear to be easy and quickly achievable, the vast range of possibilities is overwhelming, the speed of development is addictive, and the feedback loop is positive \- you are in a great mood, and you want to do more and more with agents, even compromising other things. At the same time, you finish every day exhausted or even lose sleep. In this case, the best option is to stop and completely refrain from using agents for a few days. Today, it is a new addiction, but over time, it will normalize and become a boring tool.
3. **Worldwide AI psychosis**. Investors are making overly speculative stakes in AI companies with no fundamental advantages, leadership tries to mandate AI usage without good reason, using bogus metrics like token usage, product managers are adding nauseous AI integrations, and employees are burning tokens like there is no tomorrow. Also, no need to worry much \- today there is overreaction from many sides, but over time it will settle.

### AI makes it easier to write complex code, so the code will be less accessible. [\#](/blog/agentic-coding#ai-makes-it-easier-to-write-complex-code-so-the-code-will-be-less-accessible)
