---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/log-compression-170x
topic: improve-logs-compression-with-log-clustering
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

because every pattern is evaluated against all logs, even when no match is possible. Later, we’ll look at an optimized approach that helps with this. We reingest the data to the `raw_logs` table to execute the materialized view.

```

```
1CREATE TABLE raw_logs_tmp as raw_logs
2EXCHANGE TABLES raw_logs AND raw_logs_tmp
3INSERT INTO raw_logs SELECT * FROM raw_logs_tmp
```

```

Using the complete materialized view, we can see the result in our `logs_structured` table. For each service, we managed to parse most of the logs. The logs with `TemplateNumber=0` are the ones that could not be parsed. These could be processed separately.

```

```
1SELECT
2    ServiceName,
3    TemplateNumber,
4    count()
5FROM logs_structured
6GROUP BY
7    ServiceName,
8    TemplateNumber
9ORDER BY
10    ServiceName ASC,
11    TemplateNumber ASC
```

```

```

```
┌─ServiceName────┬─TemplateNumber─┬──count()─┐
│ cart           │              0 │    66162 │
│ cart           │              3 │ 76793139 │
│ cart           │              4 │ 61116119 │
│ cart           │              5 │ 41877952 │
│ cart           │              6 │  1738375 │
│ nginx          │              0 │       16 │
│ nginx          │              7 │ 66747274 │
│ recommendation │              0 │     5794 │
│ recommendation │              1 │ 10537999 │
│ recommendation │              2 │ 10565640 │   └────────────────┴────────────────┴──────────┘
```

```

### Reconstruct raw log at query time [\#](/blog/improve-compression-log-clustering#reconstruct-raw-log-at-query-time)

We managed to extract the significant value from our logs in an automated way, but we lost the raw message in the process. This is not great. Luckily, ClickHouse supports a feature called [ALIAS](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/table#alias), which will be very useful here.

An alias column defines an expression that's evaluated only when queried. It doesn't store any data on disk; instead, its value is computed at query time.

Let's have a look at how we can leverage this feature to reconstruct the original log message at query time, using the same log template we used for parsing them.

We can add the Alias column to our existing `logs_structured` table.
