---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/integrations/hdfs
topic: didi-migrates-from-elasticsearch-to-clickhouse-for-a-new-generation-log-storage-system
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

needed to be written to both Elasticsearch and HDFS, with ES providing real\-time queries and Spark analyzing data on the latter. This design required users to maintain two independent writing pipelines, doubling resource consumption and increasing operational complexity.

In the newly upgraded storage architecture, ClickHouse replaces ES's role, with separate Log and Trace clusters. The Log cluster is dedicated to storing detailed log data, while the Trace cluster focuses on storing trace data. These two clusters are physically isolated from one other, effectively preventing high\-consumption queries (such as LIKE queries) on logs from interfering with high\-QPS queries on traces.

Log data is directly written into the Log cluster by Flink, with trace information extracted from logs through materialized views. The results of these materialized views are written to the Trace cluster, [using asynchronous writes through distributed tables](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/43625). This process not only separates log and trace data but also allows background threads in the Log cluster to periodically synchronize cold data to HDFS.

The new architecture involves only a single writing pipeline, with all operations related to cold storage of log data in HDFS and the separation of log and trace handled by ClickHouse. This shields users from underlying details and simplifies operational processes.

Considering cost and the characteristics of log data, both the Log and Trace clusters are deployed in a single\-replica mode. The largest Log cluster has over 300 nodes, while the Trace cluster has over 40 nodes.

## Storage design [\#](/blog/didi-migrates-from-elasticsearch-to-clickHouse-for-a-new-generation-log-storage-system#storage-design)

The storage design is the most critical part for performance improvements, without which ClickHouse's powerful retrieval performance could not be fully utilized. Drawing inspiration from time\-series databases, we adjusted the log time to be rounded to the nearest hour and arranged the data in storage in chronological order by specifying this in the ordering key. This way, when performing queries with other sorting keys, the desired data can be quickly located.

Below we present the storage design scheme we developed for Log tables, Trace tables, and Trace index tables, based on the characteristics of log queries and ClickHouse execution logic.

### Log table [\#](/blog/didi-migrates-from-elasticsearch-to-clickHouse-for-a-new-generation-log-storage-system#log-table)
