---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/integrations/hdfs
topic: didi-migrates-from-elasticsearch-to-clickhouse-for-a-new-generation-log-storage-system
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

careful design process, we can stably handle peak traffic during key holidays. The following sections mainly introduce some of the challenges encountered and how they were addressed. ### The fragmentation issues with small data in large clusters [\#](/blog/didi-migrates-from-elasticsearch-to-clickHouse-for-a-new-generation-log-storage-system#the-fragmentation-issues-with-small-data-in-large-clusters)

In the Log cluster, 90% of Log tables have traffic lower than 10MB/s. If data from all tables is written to hundreds of nodes, it will lead to a significant fragmentation problem with small tables. This not only affects query performance, but also has a negative impact on the overall cluster performance and creates numerous small file issues when storing cold data to HDFS.

To address these challenges, we dynamically allocate writing nodes based on the traffic size of each table. The number of writing nodes assigned to each table ranges from 2 to the maximum number of nodes in the cluster, evenly distributed across the entire cluster. Flink obtains the list of writing nodes for each table through an interface and writes data to the corresponding ClickHouse nodes, effectively resolving the data dispersion problem in large\-scale clusters.

### Write throttling and performance improvements [\#](/blog/didi-migrates-from-elasticsearch-to-clickHouse-for-a-new-generation-log-storage-system#write-throttling-and-performance-improvements)

During peak traffic periods and holidays for Didi, traffic often increases significantly. To avoid clusters being overloaded due to excessive traffic during these periods, we implemented write throttling functionality on Flink. This feature dynamically adjusts the traffic size of each table being written to the cluster. When the traffic exceeds the cluster limit, we can quickly reduce the write traffic of non\-critical tables to alleviate cluster pressure and ensure that critical table writes and queries are not affected.

Simultaneously, to improve the performance of pulsing writes, we developed a Native Connector for Flink based on the native TCP protocol of ClickHouse. Compared to the HTTP protocol, the Native Connector has lower network overhead. Additionally, we have customized the serialization mechanism for data types to make it more efficient than the previous Parquet format. After enabling the Native Connector, the write latency rate decreased from 20% to 5%, resulting in an overall performance improvement of 1\.2x.

### Performance issues with HDFS hot and cold separation [\#](/blog/didi-migrates-from-elasticsearch-to-clickHouse-for-a-new-generation-log-storage-system#performance-issues-with-hdfs-hot-and-cold-separation)

We initially encountered several performance issues when using ClickHouse’s feature for using [HDFS](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/integrations/hdfs) for [storing cold data](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/s3#storage-tiers). This resulted in us making significant contributions to the HDFS hot and cold separation functionality:
