---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/integrations/hdfs
topic: didi-migrates-from-elasticsearch-to-clickhouse-for-a-new-generation-log-storage-system
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

HDFS hot and cold separation [\#](/blog/didi-migrates-from-elasticsearch-to-clickHouse-for-a-new-generation-log-storage-system#performance-issues-with-hdfs-hot-and-cold-separation) We initially encountered several performance issues when using ClickHouse’s feature for using [HDFS](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/integrations/hdfs) for [storing cold data](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/s3#storage-tiers). This resulted in us making significant contributions to the HDFS hot and cold separation functionality:

- **Slow Service Restart and High Sys CPU Usage**: The slow service restart and high system CPU usage were attributed to poor concurrent reading performance of the libhdfs3 library, when loading metadata of Parts from HDFS during service restarts. This led to excessive system calls and exceptions being thrown when reaching the end of files. To mitigate this issue, improvements were made to the concurrent reading mechanism and metadata caching, resulting in a significant reduction in service restart time from 1 hour to 1 minute.
- **Poor Write Performance for Historical Partition Data**: When writing data to historical partitions, the data was directly written to HDFS instead of being persisted locally, resulting in poor write performance. Additionally, the data written directly to HDFS needed to be pulled back for local merge, further degrading merge performance. To improve this, optimizations were implemented to enhance write performance and streamline the merge process.
- **Mapping of Part Paths and HDFS Paths via UUID**: The mapping of local Part paths to HDFS paths using UUIDs resulted in all table data being stored under the same path in HDFS. This led to the limit of 1 million directory entries in HDFS being reached. To address this, a new mapping strategy was devised to distribute the data across multiple directories in HDFS, preventing the directory entry limit from being reached.
- **Loss of File Path Mapping in Case of Node Failure**: The file path mapping relationship was stored locally. In the event of node failure this information was at risk of being lost, leading to data loss on HDFS and the inability to delete the data. To mitigate this risk, mechanisms were put in place to ensure the persistence and resilience of file path mappings, even in the event of node failures.

Overall, these modifications and enhancements to the HDFS hot and cold separation functionality successfully resolved the issues encountered and improved the performance and reliability of the system.
