---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/getting-started/example-datasets/uk-price-paid
topic: native-random-sampling-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '30.45'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

d String, 35 e String' 36) SETTINGS max_http_get_redirects=10; ``` ``` We can then write the following query to get a count of all the rows in the table: ``` ``` 1SELECT count() 2FROM uk_price_paid; ``` ``` Which returns:

```
┌──count()─┐
│ 30452463 │ -- 30.45 million
└──────────┘

1 row in set. Elapsed: 0.002 sec.

```

## Choosing a sample key [\#](/blog/native-random-sampling#choosing-a-sample-key)

Now let's say we want to run aggregate queries on a sample of this data, because running those queries against all the data isn't fast enough. To do that, we need to specify a sample key when we create our table.

A sample key is an expression that determines which rows get included when you sample your data. The key should be an unsigned integer (like a hash), have high cardinality, and distribute evenly across its range. One such function is [`sipHash64`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/functions/hash-functions#sipHash64), a cryptographic hash function that returns a 64\-bit value.

We can verify this by checking how evenly it distributes `postcode1` and `postcode2`.
The following query uses `sipHash64` on `postcode1` and `postcode2` and then rounds down the hashes into 10 buckets, and each of them should hold around 10% of the values.

```

```
1WITH pow(2, 64) AS maxUInt64, 10 AS numBuckets
2SELECT
3    floor(sipHash64(postcode1, postcode2) / (maxUInt64 / numBuckets)) AS bucket,
4    count() AS rows,
5    round(count() / (SELECT count() FROM uk_price_paid) * 100, 2) AS pct
6FROM uk_price_paid
7GROUP BY bucket
8ORDER BY bucket;
```

```

If we run the query, we'll see the following output:

```
┌─bucket─┬────rows─┬───pct─┐
│      0 │ 3106578 │  10.2 │
│      1 │ 3025622 │  9.94 │
│      2 │ 3043133 │  9.99 │
│      3 │ 3033438 │  9.96 │
│      4 │ 3063534 │ 10.06 │
│      5 │ 3048884 │ 10.01 │
│      6 │ 3005960 │  9.87 │
│      7 │ 3053378 │ 10.03 │
│      8 │ 3029517 │  9.95 │
│      9 │ 3042419 │  9.99 │
└────────┴─────────┴───────┘

```

Each bucket holds right around 10% \- some a little less, some a little more, but very close.
`postcode1` and `postcode2` would therefore be a good choice of key.

On the other hand, let's see what happens if we hash `county` instead:
