---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/manage/api/swagger#/paths/~1v1~1organizations~1:organizationId~1services~1:serviceId~1scaling/patch
topic: horizontal-scaling-in-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

to fit in the memory of a single machine \- for instance supporting large joins across tables. There are physical limits to vertical scaling though \- the machines have an upper limit to how large they can get.

Horizontal scaling, on the other hand, involves adding more machines. Usually, these are all of the same size in order to scale out a cluster of homogenous machines (or replicas). The workload is then distributed among a large number of smaller machines (as opposed to a few large machines in case of vertical scaling).

Horizontal scaling provides better fault tolerance as the load is spread over a larger set of replicas. It is usually faster to scale out a service horizontally, by adding smaller machines, than it is to scale vertically by increasing the size of existing replicas. Because of the mechanics of how horizontal scaling works, it can also be less disruptive than vertical scaling, as new replicas are being added (rather than existing replicas being resized, or replaced).

Horizontal and vertical scaling help with different kinds of workloads. Workloads that need lots of resources from a single machine benefit from vertical scaling. For workloads with high concurrency, horizontal scaling can be a great alternative. For instance, you might have the need to ingest a large amount of data into ClickHouse. Adding additional replicas will allow the ingestion to proceed much faster. Horizontal scaling also works much better than vertical scaling in scenarios where the request rate is increasing, and you need to quickly add capacity to the cluster without impacting the existing capacity.

### Horizontal scaling in action [\#](/blog/horizontal-scaling-in-clickHouse-cloud#horizontal-scaling-in-action)

Once horizontal scaling is enabled on the service, you can use ClickHouse Cloud [public APIs](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/manage/api/swagger#/paths/~1v1~1organizations~1:organizationId~1services~1:serviceId~1scaling/patch) to scale your service by updating the [scaling settings](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/manage/api/swagger#/paths/~1v1~1organizations~1%7BorganizationId%7D~1services~1%7BserviceId%7D~1scaling/patch) for the service.

Let’s see how horizontal scaling works.

1. First, inspect the memory allocated to your cluster as well as the number of replicas. You can do this by looking at the cloud console dashboard as well as the number of replicas from your service settings. Here we have a 3 replica cluster with 16 GiB of memory allocated to each, resulting in a total of 48 GiB memory allocated to the cluster.
