---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/altinity\-kb\-setup\-and\-maintenance/altinity\-kb\-zookeeper/jvm\-sizes\-and\-garbage\-collector\-settings/](https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-zookeeper/jvm-sizes-and-garbage-collector-settings/
topic: zookeeper-session-has-expired-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '2024.02'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

# Zookeeper session has expired \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Setup \& maintenance](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/)
2. Zookeeper session has expired
# Zookeeper session has expired

> **Q. I get “Zookeeper session has expired” once. What should i do? Should I worry?**

Getting exceptions or lack of acknowledgement in distributed system from time to time is a normal situation.
Your client should do the retry. If that happened once and your client do retries correctly \- nothing to worry about.

It it happens often, or with every retry \- it may be a sign of some misconfiguration / issue in cluster (see below).

> **Q. we see a lot of these: Zookeeper session has expired. Switching to a new session**

A. There is a single Zookeeper session per server. But there are many threads that can use Zookeeper simultaneously.
So the same event (we lose the single Zookeeper session we had), will be reported by all the threads/queries which were using that Zookeeper session.

Usually after loosing the Zookeeper session that exception is printed by all the thread which watch Zookeeper replication queues, and all the threads which had some in\-flight Zookeeper operations (for example inserts, `ON CLUSTER` commands etc).

If you see a lot of those simultaneously \- that just means you have a lot of threads talking to Zookeeper simultaneously (or may be you have many replicated tables?).

BTW: every Replicated table comes with its own cost, so you [can\&rsquo;t scale the number of replicated tables indefinitely](/altinity-kb-schema-design/how-much-is-too-much/#number-of-tables-system-wide-across-all-databases)
.

Typically after several hundreds (sometimes thousands) of replicated tables, the ClickHouse® server becomes unusable: it can’t do any other work, but only keeping replication housekeeping tasks. ‘ClickHouse\-way’ is to have a few (maybe dozens) of very huge tables instead of having thousands of tiny tables. (Side note: the number of not\-replicated tables can be scaled much better).

So again if during short period of time you see lot of those exceptions and that don’t happen anymore for a while \- nothing to worry about. Just ensure your client is doing retries properly.

> **Q. We are wondering what is causing that session to “timeout” as the default looks like 30 seconds, and there’s certainly stuff happening much more frequently than every 30 seconds.**
