---
source: blog
url: https://fivetran.com/
topic: announcing-the-fivetran-destination-for-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

problem, but we considered this would struggle with workloads containing a higher number of updates. We therefore decided on an approach where the destination reads the full contents of the row from ClickHouse before reinserting an update copy.

Since the destination could be connected to a proxy or load balancer in front of a ClickHouse cluster, we need to ensure that reads are sequentially consistent i.e., if a row has recently been inserted into one node, a read for the same row must always exceed from other nodes (no stale reads). For this, we use the setting `select_sequential_consistency=1`. For [ClickHouse Cloud’s SharedMergeTree (SMT) engine](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/reference/shared-merge-tree#consistency), this operation is much lighter weight than for ReplicatedMergeTree and can be reliably scaled. For ReplicatedMergeTree this requires [quorum inserts](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#insert_quorum) (Inserts are quorum inserts by default in SMT) to be enabled and incurs significant overhead.
- **Efficient handling of updates and deletes** \- To handle updates and deletes, the Fivetran destination uses the ReplacingMergeTree (SharedReplacingMergeTree more specifically). This is recommended as the optimal means to [handle this workload in ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1). To ensure accurate counts are returned to analytical queries, users will need to ensure table names include a `FINAL` suffix.
- **Go implementation** \- While Fivetran offers several SDKs, we selected Golang as the language for implementation. The [client for this language](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-go) is mature and this aligns with our existing use of the language internally for products such as ClickPipes.

Since SharedMergeTree, on which the destination depends, is limited to ClickHouse Cloud, the current implementation cannot be used with ClickHouse OSS. As Fivetran is exclusively a SaaS service, we don’t anticipate many use cases that will need OSS support. However, the code is permissively licensed, and we welcome contributions to support ReplicatedMergeTree efficiently. Those interested in adding support should see [this issue](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-fivetran-destination/issues/3).

## A simple example [\#](/blog/fivetran-destination-clickhouse-cloud#a-simple-example)

To show off the new destination we demonstrate loading data from Zendesk. Zendesk tickets represents a treasure trove of useful business data for analytics. While this would have traditionally required users to familiarize themselves with the Zendesk APIs and ClickHouse ingestion, we show how Fivetran facilitates this in a few simple clicks!

The destination includes built\-in documentation for users looking for a more comprehensive experience. Alternatively, you can check out the extensive [docs hosted by Fivetran](https://fivetran.com/docs/destinations/clickhouse) .

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/fivetran-destination-clickhouse-cloud#conclusion)
