---
source: blog
url: https://www.featureform.com/
topic: powering-feature-stores-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

have also integrated **vector databases** to act as the orchestration layer for RAG pipelines or to help find similar features using embeddings \- a useful capability during some model training. ### So, do you actually need one? [\#](/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse#so-do-you-actually-need-one)

When deciding whether to use an off\-the\-shelf feature store or build your own, the decision will likely depend on a few factors (in our opinion):

- **Existing tooling** \- If you use a complete ML platform, the chances are you don't need a feature store. Most of these capabilities are a subset of such a platform. However, these platforms are often the least flexible and the most costly and complex to adopt. Conversely, if you're using a collection of disparate systems and tooling to achieve different parts of your ML training and inference process, it may make sense.
- **Complexity and size** \- While ML model training doesn't need to be fundamental to your business, you probably need a decent number of datasets, models, and data scientists to justify the additional complexity. While it may be possible to work in an ad\-hoc way for smaller use cases, moving larger more mission\-critical models to production will require greater governance and stronger pipelines.
- **The benefits of abstractions** \- The abstractions offered by a feature store will benefit some teams more than others. If you have data scientists and data engineers with very distinct roles, the separation of concerns that can be possible with a feature store may be attractive. In this case, engineers can deliver features to data scientists through a simple API (in a terminology they understand), with the latter abstracted from the feature preparation processes.

Conversely, if your data scientists are comfortable with feature engineering, the abstractions offered probably offer less benefit. For example, assuming your data resides in a SQL\-compatible database or data lake (accessible through a query engine), transformations could be managed through tooling such as dbt. This will require your data scientists to query tables directly in SQL but is likely to be sufficient, with dbt offering versioning and documentation of your transformations. However, this does leave you needing to address many of the other challenges of ML ops with specific point solutions.

## Components of a Feature Store [\#](/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse#components-of-a-feature-store)
