---
source: blog
url: https://www.featureform.com/
topic: powering-feature-stores-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

the typical network bottlenecks. ClickHouse Cloud expands on this further by storing only a single copy of the data in object storage and allowing nodes to be scaled vertically or horizontally dynamically in response to load as required.

The above architecture still requires several key components not satisfied by ClickHouse: a streaming engine such as Kafka \+ Flink and a framework to provide compute for model training. A means of hosting models is also required. For simplicity, we assume the use of a cloud\-hosted solution to these, such as Confluent and Amazon SageMaker.

## ClickHouse Featureform Integration [\#](/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse#clickhouse-featureform-integration)

To realize our vision of a virtual feature store, super\-charged by ClickHouse, we identified Featureform as the ideal solution with which to integrate. As well as being open\-source, thus allowing us to easily contribute, Featureform also offers mature (by design) integration points for offline stores, online stores, and vector databases.

For our [initial integration](https://github.com/featureform/featureform/pull/1224), we have added ClickHouse as an offline store. This represents the largest effort of work and allows ClickHouse to be used as a data source and for the main store for features and training sets. Users can also exploit ClickHouse to power transformations when creating feature groups and inserting data from other sources.

This represents our first effort to integrate with Featureform. Expect to be able to use ClickHouse as an online store and vector database soon!

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse#conclusion)

In this blog we introduced the concept of a feature store and its use in MLOps workflows. We explored why you might use a feature store, main types of feature stores, and their core architectural components. With this foundation, we presented how ClickHouse as a high performance real\-time data warehouse can be used to power multiple components of a “virtual” feature store, announcing the recent integration with Featureform as an example.

In our next blog in this series, we will explore the integration and training of a model using Featureform and AWS Sagemaker with data and features held in ClickHouse!

[Get started](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog) with ClickHouse Cloud today and receive $300 in credits. At the end of your 30\-day trial, continue with a pay\-as\-you\-go plan, or [contact us](/company/contact?loc=blog-cta-footer) to learn more about our volume\-based discounts. Visit our [pricing page](/pricing?loc=blog-cta-header) for details.
