---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/grant.md)#
topic: grant-statement-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

OPTION` privilege. You can grant privileges only inside the scope of your account privileges. For example, administrator has granted privileges to the `john` account by the query: ``` GRANT SELECT(x,y) ON db.table TO john WITH GRANT OPTION ```

It means that `john` has the permission to execute:

- `SELECT x,y FROM db.table`.
- `SELECT x FROM db.table`.
- `SELECT y FROM db.table`.

`john` can't execute `SELECT z FROM db.table`. The `SELECT * FROM db.table` also is not available. Processing this query, ClickHouse does not return any data, even `x` and `y`. The only exception is if a table contains only `x` and `y` columns. In this case ClickHouse returns all the data.

Also `john` has the `GRANT OPTION` privilege, so it can grant other users with privileges of the same or smaller scope.

Access to the `system` database is always allowed (since this database is used for processing queries).

NoteWhile there are many system tables which new users can access by default, they may not be able to access every system table by default without grants.
Additionally, access to certain system tables such as `system.zookeeper` is restricted for Cloud users for security reasons.

You can grant multiple privileges to multiple accounts in one query. The query `GRANT SELECT, INSERT ON *.* TO john, robin` allows accounts `john` and `robin` to execute the `INSERT` and `SELECT` queries over all the tables in all the databases on the server.

## Wildcard grants[​](#wildcard-grants "Direct link to Wildcard grants")

Specifying privileges you can use asterisk (`*`) instead of a table or a database name. For example, the `GRANT SELECT ON db.* TO john` query allows `john` to execute the `SELECT` query over all the tables in `db` database.
Also, you can omit database name. In this case privileges are granted for current database.
For example, `GRANT SELECT ON * TO john` grants the privilege on all the tables in the current database, `GRANT SELECT ON mytable TO john` grants the privilege on the `mytable` table in the current database.

NoteThe feature described below is available starting with the 24\.10 ClickHouse version.
