---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/grant.md)#
topic: grant-statement-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

`SYSTEM THREAD FUZZER` - `SYSTEM TTL MERGES` - `SYSTEM UNFREEZE` - `SYSTEM UNLOAD PRIMARY KEY` - `SYSTEM VIEWS` - `SYSTEM VIRTUAL PARTS UPDATE` - `SYSTEM WAIT LOADING PARTS` - [`TABLE ENGINE`](#table-engine) - [`TRUNCATE`](#truncate) - `UNDROP TABLE` - [`NONE`](#none)

Examples of how this hierarchy is treated:

- The `ALTER` privilege includes all other `ALTER*` privileges.
- `ALTER CONSTRAINT` includes `ALTER ADD CONSTRAINT` and `ALTER DROP CONSTRAINT` privileges.

Privileges are applied at different levels. Knowing of a level suggests syntax available for privilege.

Levels (from lower to higher):

- `COLUMN` — Privilege can be granted for column, table, database, or globally.
- `TABLE` — Privilege can be granted for table, database, or globally.
- `VIEW` — Privilege can be granted for view, database, or globally.
- `DICTIONARY` — Privilege can be granted for dictionary, database, or globally.
- `DATABASE` — Privilege can be granted for database or globally.
- `GLOBAL` — Privilege can be granted only globally.
- `GROUP` — Groups privileges of different levels. When `GROUP`\-level privilege is granted, only that privileges from the group are granted which correspond to the used syntax.

Examples of allowed syntax:

- `GRANT SELECT(x) ON db.table TO user`
- `GRANT SELECT ON db.* TO user`

Examples of disallowed syntax:

- `GRANT CREATE USER(x) ON db.table TO user`
- `GRANT CREATE USER ON db.* TO user`

The special privilege [ALL](#all) grants all the privileges to a user account or a role.

By default, a user account or a role has no privileges.

If a user or a role has no privileges, it is displayed as [NONE](#none) privilege.

Some queries by their implementation require a set of privileges. For example, to execute the [RENAME](/docs/sql-reference/statements/optimize) query you need the following privileges: `SELECT`, `CREATE TABLE`, `INSERT` and `DROP TABLE`.

### SELECT[​](#select "Direct link to SELECT")

Allows executing [SELECT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select) queries.

Privilege level: `COLUMN`.

**Description**

User granted with this privilege can execute `SELECT` queries over a specified list of columns in the specified table and database. If user includes other columns then specified a query returns no data.

Consider the following privilege:

```
GRANT SELECT(x,y) ON db.table TO john

```
