---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/grant.md)#
topic: grant-statement-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

SECURITY`. Level: `VIEW`. Aliases: `ALTER TABLE MODIFY SQL SECURITY` Examples of how this hierarchy is treated: - The `ALTER` privilege includes all other `ALTER*` privileges. - `ALTER CONSTRAINT` includes `ALTER ADD CONSTRAINT` and `ALTER DROP CONSTRAINT` privileges. **Notes**

- The `MODIFY SETTING` privilege allows modifying table engine settings. It does not affect settings or server configuration parameters.
- The `ATTACH` operation needs the [CREATE](#create) privilege.
- The `DETACH` operation needs the [DROP](#drop) privilege.
- To stop mutation by the [KILL MUTATION](/docs/sql-reference/statements/kill#kill-mutation) query, you need to have a privilege to start this mutation. For example, if you want to stop the `ALTER UPDATE` query, you need the `ALTER UPDATE`, `ALTER TABLE`, or `ALTER` privilege.

### BACKUP[​](#backup "Direct link to BACKUP")

Allows execution of \[`BACKUP`] in queries. For more information on backups see ["Backup and Restore"](/docs/operations/backup/overview).

### CREATE[​](#create "Direct link to CREATE")

Allows executing [CREATE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create) and [ATTACH](/docs/sql-reference/statements/attach) DDL\-queries according to the following hierarchy of privileges:

- `CREATE`. Level: `GROUP`
	- `CREATE DATABASE`. Level: `DATABASE`
	- `CREATE TABLE`. Level: `TABLE`
		- `CREATE ARBITRARY TEMPORARY TABLE`. Level: `GLOBAL`
			- `CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE`. Level: `GLOBAL`
	- `CREATE VIEW`. Level: `VIEW`
	- `CREATE DICTIONARY`. Level: `DICTIONARY`

**Notes**

- To delete the created table, a user needs [DROP](#drop).

### CLUSTER[​](#cluster "Direct link to CLUSTER")

Allows executing `ON CLUSTER` queries.

```
GRANT CLUSTER ON *.* TO <username>

```

By default, queries with `ON CLUSTER` require the user to have the `CLUSTER` grant.
You will get the following error if you to try to use `ON CLUSTER` in a query without first granting the `CLUSTER` privilege:

```
Not enough privileges. To execute this query, it's necessary to have the grant CLUSTER ON *.*. 

```

The default behavior can be changed by setting the `on_cluster_queries_require_cluster_grant` setting,
located in the `access_control_improvements` section of `config.xml` (see below), to `false`.

```
<access_control_improvements>
    <on_cluster_queries_require_cluster_grant>true</on_cluster_queries_require_cluster_grant>
</access_control_improvements>

```

### DROP[​](#drop "Direct link to DROP")

Allows executing [DROP](/docs/sql-reference/statements/drop) and [DETACH](/docs/sql-reference/statements/detach) queries according to the following hierarchy of privileges:

- `DROP`. Level: `GROUP`
	- `DROP DATABASE`. Level: `DATABASE`
	- `DROP TABLE`. Level: `TABLE`
	- `DROP VIEW`. Level: `VIEW`
	- `DROP DICTIONARY`. Level: `DICTIONARY`

### TRUNCATE[​](#truncate "Direct link to TRUNCATE")

Allows executing [TRUNCATE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/truncate) queries.

Privilege level: `TABLE`.

### OPTIMIZE[​](#optimize "Direct link to OPTIMIZE")

Allows executing [OPTIMIZE TABLE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/optimize) queries.

Privilege level: `TABLE`.

### SHOW[​](#show "Direct link to SHOW")
