---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/grant.md)#
topic: grant-statement-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

Aliases: `FLUSH DISTRIBUTED` - `SYSTEM FLUSH LOGS`. Level: `GLOBAL`. Aliases: `FLUSH LOGS` The `SYSTEM RELOAD EMBEDDED DICTIONARIES` privilege implicitly granted by the `SYSTEM RELOAD DICTIONARY ON *.*` privilege. ### INTROSPECTION[​](#introspection "Direct link to INTROSPECTION") Allows using [introspection](/docs/operations/optimizing-performance/sampling-query-profiler) functions.

- `INTROSPECTION`. Level: `GROUP`. Aliases: `INTROSPECTION FUNCTIONS`
	- `addressToLine`. Level: `GLOBAL`
	- `addressToLineWithInlines`. Level: `GLOBAL`
	- `addressToSymbol`. Level: `GLOBAL`
	- `demangle`. Level: `GLOBAL`

### SOURCES[​](#sources "Direct link to SOURCES")

Allows using external data sources. Applies to [table engines](/docs/engines/table-engines) and [table functions](/docs/sql-reference/table-functions).

- `READ`. Level: `GLOBAL_WITH_PARAMETER`
- `WRITE`. Level: `GLOBAL_WITH_PARAMETER`

Possible parameters:

- `AZURE`
- `FILE`
- `HDFS`
- `HIVE`
- `JDBC`
- `KAFKA`
- `MONGO`
- `MYSQL`
- `NATS`
- `ODBC`
- `POSTGRES`
- `RABBITMQ`
- `REDIS`
- `REMOTE`
- `S3`
- `SQLITE`
- `URL`

NoteThe separation on READ/WRITE grants for sources is available starting with version 25\.7 and only with server setting
`access_control_improvements.enable_read_write_grants`Otherwise, you should use the syntax `GRANT AZURE ON *.* TO user` which is equivalent to the new `GRANT READ, WRITE ON AZURE TO user`

Examples:

- To create a table with the [MySQL table engine](/docs/engines/table-engines/integrations/mysql), you need `CREATE TABLE (ON db.table_name)` and `MYSQL` privileges.
- To use the [mysql table function](/docs/sql-reference/table-functions/mysql), you need `CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE` and `MYSQL` privileges.

### Source Filter Grants[​](#source-filter-grants "Direct link to Source Filter Grants")

NoteThis feature is available starting with version 25\.8 and only with server setting
`access_control_improvements.enable_read_write_grants`

You can grant access to specific source URIs by using regular expression filters. This allows fine\-grained control over which external data sources users can access.

**Syntax:**

```
GRANT READ ON S3('regexp_pattern') TO user

```

This grant will allow the user to read only from S3 URIs that match the specified regular expression pattern.

**Examples:**

Grant access to specific S3 bucket paths:

```
-- Allow user to read only from s3://foo/ paths
GRANT READ ON S3('s3://foo/.*') TO john

-- Allow user to read from specific file patterns
GRANT READ ON S3('s3://mybucket/data/2024/.*\.parquet') TO analyst

-- Multiple filters can be granted to the same user
GRANT READ ON S3('s3://foo/.*') TO john
GRANT READ ON S3('s3://bar/.*') TO john

```
