---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/query-analyze-hugging-face-datasets-with-clickhouse
topic: using-clickhouse-udfs-to-integrate-with-openai-models
ch_version_introduced: '3.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

extra per request). This is well above the 90k per minute limit. Despite this, if this work was scheduled perfectly, we would expect this request to complete in the 200 secs (329/90 \~ 3\.65mins \~ 200s) we experienced.

***While a better rate limiting implementation (e.g. based on the [generic cell rate algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Generic_cell_rate_algorithm)) might make more optimal use of Open AI API resources, the request latency will ultimately be limited by our token limits. We could only use the first N tokens, with N selected based on a limit which would ensure the full request limits of 3500/min can be exploited i.e. 90000/3500 \~25 tokens. This was unlikely to be sufficient to establish mentioned technologies on sentiment in our examples however.***

### Extraction at insert time [\#](/blog/clickhouse-open-ai-user-defined-functions-udfs#extraction-at-insert-time)

Given rate limiting and latency, a more preferable means to using the API for querying is to assign a sentiment column at the time of data insertion. With its pool of commands, the Python function is more suited for this type of batch processing. Below, we extract a sentiment when loading rows via an `INSERT INTO`. In this example, we insert all ClickHouse\-related rows into a dedicated table computing a sentiment column for each. This type of processing is ideal as new rows are inserted, with the Hacker News dataset receiving about 8\-10 new rows per minute. Once the column is assigned we enjoy ClickHouse query speeds on our sentiment column, without needing to make API requests.

```
INSERT INTO hackernews_v2 SELECT
	*,
	sentiment_p(text) AS sentiment
FROM hackernews
WHERE (text LIKE '%ClickHouse%') OR (title LIKE '%ClickHouse%')

0 rows in set. Elapsed: 185.452 sec. Processed 37.17 million rows, 13.54 GB (200.44 thousand rows/s., 73.00 MB/s.)

SELECT count(), sentiment
FROM hackernews_v2
GROUP BY sentiment

┌─count()─┬─sentiment─┐
│ 	193 │ NEGATIVE  │
│ 	850 │ POSITIVE  │
│ 	634 │ NEUTRAL   │
└─────────┴───────────┘

3 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.003 sec. Processed 1.68 thousand rows, 1.68 KB (531.10 thousand rows/s., 531.10 KB/s.)
Peak memory usage: 72.90 KiB.

```

## Extracting structure [\#](/blog/clickhouse-open-ai-user-defined-functions-udfs#extracting-structure)

For completeness, let's also convert our earlier OpenAI request to extract technologies from our post. The bash Python is shown below.
