---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp
topic: how-we-built-the-internal-data-warehouse-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

scenario. Imagine, for instance, that you insert data into a staging table. The insert successfully completes and your ELT process starts to execute the next query that reads from the staging table… and you get only partial data.

However, ClickHouse offers a different mode for use cases where consistency is more important than instant availability of inserted data on the first node. To guarantee that the insert query does not return “success” until all replicas have the data, we run all insert queries with a setting `insert_quorum=3` (we have three nodes in our cluster). We don’t use the “auto” setting because when one node goes down (for example, when a ClickHouse upgrade is performed), it will still be possible for the two remaining nodes to accept inserts. Once the restarted node is available, there can be missing inserted data in this node for some time. So for us it is better to get an error (`Number of alive replicas (2) is less than requested quorum (3/3).. (TOO_FEW_LIVE_REPLICAS`) when inserting data in less than three replicas. As restarts due to upgrades are quite fast, queries are usually successful when Airflow retries after an error.

Of course, such an approach doesn’t guarantee that uncommitted parts from previous failed inserts are not visible for a query, but this is not a problem as we support idempotency as described in the previous part. Another solution would be to run all ELT processes using only one replica, but this can limit performance.

### Internal infrastructure design [\#](/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse#internal-infrastructure-design)

Given our scale, we need our DWH infrastructure to be simple, easy to operate and easy to scale. After running an internal PoC directly on AWS EC2, we migrated all our infrastructure components to Docker.
