---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp
topic: how-we-built-the-internal-data-warehouse-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

example: - [general\_data@clickhouse.com](mailto:general_data@clickhouse.com) - [company@clickhouse.com](mailto:company@clickhouse.com) - [financial\_data@clickhouse.com](mailto:financial_data@clickhouse.com) - [thor@clickhouse.com](mailto:thor@clickhouse.com) - [ironman@clickhouse.com](mailto:ironman@clickhouse.com) - [thehulk@clickhouse.com](mailto:thehulk@clickhouse.com) - [scrooge@clickhouse.com](mailto:scrooge@clickhouse.com) - [hr\_data@clickhouse.com](mailto:hr_data@clickhouse.com) - [captain\_clickhouse@clickhouse.com](mailto:captain_clickhouse@clickhouse.com) - [chip@clickhouse.com](mailto:chip@clickhouse.com) - [superman@clickhouse.com](mailto:superman@clickhouse.com) For matching Google groups with exact permissions, we use a system table that connects the:

- Google group name
- Database name
- Table name
- Array of columns
- Filter (for example, “where organization\=’clickhouse’”)
- Access type (SELECT, INSERT)

We also have a script that does the following:

1. Gets a recursive list of groups and users
2. Creates (actually, replaces) these users in the database with a unique password
3. Creates roles corresponding to Google groups
4. Assigns roles to users
5. Grants permissions to roles according to permission table with “WITH REPLACE OPTION” clause \- this will remove all other grants that could be done manually for some reason

On the Superset side, we use the [DB\_CONNECTION\_MUTATOR](https://github.com/apache/superset/blob/b544993048583f77b2472bf4654b7abec7f8eaed/superset/config.py#L1042) function to substitute the database username with the Superset user when a query is sent to the DB. We also have Google Oauth enabled in Superset. That means, in the DB\_CONNECTION\_MUTATOR we have everything we need to make Superset connect with the desired username and password:

```
def DB_CONNECTION_MUTATOR(uri, params, username, security_manager, source):
    # Only enable mutator on clickhouse cloud endpoints
    if not uri.host.lower().endswith("clickhouse.cloud"):
        return uri, params
    user = security_manager.find_user(username=username)
    
    generated_username = str(user.email).split('@')[0] + '--' + str(user.username)
    uri.username = generated_username
    # Password generation logic - hidden in this example
    uri.password = ...
    return uri, params

```

The above means that Superset uses a unique database username for every user, with a unique set of permissions that are controlled by Google groups.

### GDPR Compliance [\#](/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse#gdpr-compliance)

ClickHouse Cloud users can ask us to delete all their personal data including name, email and other information. Of course, in this case we also delete this information from the DWH. The coolest thing here is that we don’t need to run any updates or deletes in ClickHouse tables. Because our engine leaves only one last record for every key value, all we need to do is to insert a new version of row with deleted users data. It will take a few hours for old rows to disappear, but GDPR standards give you from 3 to 30 days for data removal based on the scenario. So the full algorithm is:
