---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp
topic: how-we-built-the-internal-data-warehouse-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

row with deleted users data. It will take a few hours for old rows to disappear, but GDPR standards give you from 3 to 30 days for data removal based on the scenario. So the full algorithm is:

1. Find a special flag in one of the source system that this ID should be masked/deleted
2. Select all records from the table with this ID
3. Mask required fields
4. Insert the data back to the table
5. Run “optimize table … final” command to be sure old records are deleted from disk
6. When a new hourly increment is coming we perform a join to the list of deleted IDs. This means if for some reason user’s PII information has not been fully removed yet, we will automatically mask this data

## Improvements and plans for future [\#](/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse#improvements-and-plans-for-future)

Though in general we are satisfied with our DWH, there are some things that we plan to change in the upcoming months:

### Third logical layer [\#](/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse#third-logical-layer)

The idea of having only two logical layers, unfortunately, doesn’t work. We found that for calculating really complex metrics that can be backfilled and that need data from 5\+ data sources, we have to create dependencies between different marts. Sometimes this even involves recursive dependencies. To solve this, we need to introduce an intermediate layer called the Detail Data Store, or DDS. It will store some internal business entities like account, organization, service, etc. This layer will not be available for end users, but it will help us to remove dependencies between marts.

### DBT [\#](/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse#dbt)

Airflow is a good scheduler, but we need a tool that will take care of many other things: reloading data marts completely if needed, QA, data describing and documentation, and others. For that, we plan to integrate Airflow with DBT. As we run all our data infrastructure in Docker containers, it is quite easy to create a separate DBT container for our needs that will be triggered by Airflow DAGs.

### Naming conventions [\#](/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse#naming-conventions)
