---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-java
topic: java-client-the-sequel
ch_version_introduced: '0.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

query. The new API aims to offer intuitive and self\-explanatory interfaces with reasonable defaults, enabling users to initiate their projects without the need to delve into the client source code. #### Complexity in Data Insertion and Retrieval. [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#complexity-in-data-insertion-and-retrieval)

Inserting or retrieving data using the Java client demands a thorough understanding of ClickHouse data formats. The Java client supports JSON and RowBinary data formats for insertion operations. A more compact format with less overhead, such as RowBinary, is preferred for applications with stringent latency requirements.

Unfortunately, the current implementation requires users to manage data serialization and deserialization of RowBinary within their applications. Although the client provides a set of helpers, the process of writing RowBinary and RowBinaryWithDefault is complex and prone to errors, particularly when dealing with intricate types such as nested arrays and maps. The new version of the client addresses this issue by providing serializers that are generated by parsing data objects. Users simply need to register these object classes, and our client will manage the rest.

#### Unsafe Low\-Level Optimizations [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#unsafe-low-level-optimizations)

Certain low\-level optimizations, such as response object reuse, would introduce potentially dangerous side effects that can be unexpected in your application. Rather than enabling these “optimizations” by default, we’ve disabled them for now \- all query results will be immutable and lazily deserialized to reduce the memory footprint.

We’re discussing having an opt\-in approach in the future to change this, allowing users to activate them when there are high requirements for memory and CPU efficiency \- be sure to speak up if you have thoughts on this!

### New Client API Goals [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#new-client-api-goals)

We wanted to focus on solving these problems (and let people “just start using the client”) by:

#### Intuitive API [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#intuitive-api)

This was a huge motivation because there was a LOT of complexity to the existing client \- we had so many layers and so many abstractions, it was hard to know what methods to use where. We wanted to streamline the whole process to keep things flowing smoothly.

#### Improve Documentation [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#improve-documentation)
