---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-java
topic: java-client-the-sequel
ch_version_introduced: '0.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

existing client \- we had so many layers and so many abstractions, it was hard to know what methods to use where. We wanted to streamline the whole process to keep things flowing smoothly. #### Improve Documentation [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#improve-documentation)

Documentation is the bane of many developers \- it’s almost never quite what you need, and often becomes outdated as the underlying code moves on. We wanted to make sure the API was self\-documenting, so that required parameters are obvious (without having to find a doc listing them) and optional parameters are made more visible too.

This also includes more implementation examples too \- with a smaller API footprint, the new sample code should help folks onboard that much faster!

#### Cleaning\-Up Code Base [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#cleaning-up-code-base)

As I’m sure many of you can attest, the longer your codebase lives, the more historical baggage it collects. We’ve deprecated some client code over the last 8\+ years, but it’s time to finally prune things (and deprecate new things in their place). We believe it will make contributing more comfortable in the long run.

## Let’s Try It Already! [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#lets-try-it-already)

### Setup [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#setup)

Creating a client object is done in builder style. All settings are set by methods and then validated internally:

```
Client.Builder clientBuilder = new Client.Builder()
                .addEndpoint(endpoint)
                .setUsername(user)
                .setPassword(password)
                .compressServerResponse(true)
                .setDefaultDatabase(database);

this.client = clientBuilder.build();

```

### Insert POJOs [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#insert-pojos)

Here’s how you might insert data with a sample POJO and the new serialization api (note you should have getters):

```
public class ArticleViewEvent {
    private Double postId;
    private LocalDateTime viewTime;
    private String clientId;
}

```

We need to register it before using insert methods:

```
client.register(ArticleViewEvent.class, client.getTableSchema(TABLE_NAME));

```

The second argument of the `register` is a table schema that can be an exact table one or a custom one.

Finally just pass collection of `ArticleViewEvent` objects to `insert` method:

```
ArrayList<ArticleViewEvent> events = … ; // filled collection
client.insert(TABLE_NAME, events, new InsertSettings()); 

```

The new client will select the most efficient format and will transmit data to a server.

[See complete example](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-java/blob/main/examples/client-v2/src/main/java/com/clickhouse/examples/client_v2/POJO2DbWriter.java)

### Insert Data From A Stream [\#](/blog/java-client-sequel#insert-data-from-a-stream)

There are cases when data is already in a format supported by ClickHouse. For example, JSONEachRow. In this case nothing should be registered but data should be passed as InputStream:
