---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-formats.md)#
topic: format-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '2.00'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 29
---

inferred from the `message_name` part of the legacy `format_schema` value. - If `format_schema_message_name` is specified while using the legacy format, an error will be raised. ## format\_schema\_source[​](#format_schema_source "Direct link to format_schema_source") Define the source of `format_schema`. Possible values:

- 'file' (default): The `format_schema` is the name of a schema file located in the `format_schemas` directory.
- 'string': The `format_schema` is the literal content of the schema.
- 'query': The `format_schema` is a query to retrieve the schema.
When `format_schema_source` is set to 'query', the following conditions apply:
- The query must return exactly one value: a single row with a single string column.
- The result of the query is treated as the schema content.
- This result is cached locally in the `format_schemas` directory.
- You can clear the local cache using the command: `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE FOR Files`.
- Once cached, identical queries are not executed to fetch the schema again until the cache is explicitly cleared
- In addition to local cache files, Protobuf messages are also cached in memory. Even after clearing the local cache files, the in\-memory cache must be cleared using `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE [FOR Protobuf]` to fully refresh the schema.
- Run the query `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE` to clear the cache for both cache files and Protobuf messages schemas at once.

## format\_template\_resultset[​](#format_template_resultset "Direct link to format_template_resultset")

Path to file which contains format string for result set (for Template format)

## format\_template\_resultset\_format[​](#format_template_resultset_format "Direct link to format_template_resultset_format")

Format string for result set (for Template format)

## format\_template\_row[​](#format_template_row "Direct link to format_template_row")

Path to file which contains format string for rows (for Template format)

## format\_template\_row\_format[​](#format_template_row_format "Direct link to format_template_row_format")

Format string for rows (for Template format)

## format\_template\_rows\_between\_delimiter[​](#format_template_rows_between_delimiter "Direct link to format_template_rows_between_delimiter")

Delimiter between rows (for Template format)

## format\_tsv\_null\_representation[​](#format_tsv_null_representation "Direct link to format_tsv_null_representation")

Custom NULL representation in TSV format

## input\_format\_allow\_errors\_num[​](#input_format_allow_errors_num "Direct link to input_format_allow_errors_num")

Sets the maximum number of acceptable errors when reading from text formats (CSV, TSV, etc.).

The default value is 0\.

Always pair it with `input_format_allow_errors_ratio`.

If an error occurred while reading rows but the error counter is still less than `input_format_allow_errors_num`, ClickHouse ignores the row and moves on to the next one.

If both `input_format_allow_errors_num` and `input_format_allow_errors_ratio` are exceeded, ClickHouse throws an exception.
