---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-formats.md)#
topic: format-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '2.00'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 15
total_chunks_in_doc: 29
---

'str'. For Nullable columns empty wrappers are recognized as defaults, and missing as nulls ## input\_format\_protobuf\_oneof\_presence[​](#input_format_protobuf_oneof_presence "Direct link to input_format_protobuf_oneof_presence") Indicate which field of protobuf oneof was found by means of setting enum value in a special colum

## input\_format\_protobuf\_skip\_fields\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_protobuf_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_protobuf_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference")

Skip fields with unsupported types while schema inference for format Protobuf

## input\_format\_record\_errors\_file\_path[​](#input_format_record_errors_file_path "Direct link to input_format_record_errors_file_path")

Path of the file used to record errors while reading text formats (CSV, TSV).

## input\_format\_skip\_unknown\_fields[​](#input_format_skip_unknown_fields "Direct link to input_format_skip_unknown_fields")

Enables or disables skipping insertion of extra data.

When writing data, ClickHouse throws an exception if input data contain columns that do not exist in the target table. If skipping is enabled, ClickHouse does not insert extra data and does not throw an exception.

Supported formats:

- [JSONEachRow](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats)
- [BSONEachRow](/docs/interfaces/formats/BSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats)
- [TSKV](/docs/interfaces/formats/TSKV)
- All formats with suffixes WithNames/WithNamesAndTypes
- [MySQLDump](/docs/interfaces/formats/MySQLDump)
- [Native](/docs/interfaces/formats/Native)

Possible values:

- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.

## input\_format\_try\_infer\_dates[​](#input_format_try_infer_dates "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_dates")

If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type `Date` from string fields in schema inference for text formats. If all fields from a column in input data were successfully parsed as dates, the result type will be `Date`, if at least one field was not parsed as date, the result type will be `String`.

Enabled by default.

## input\_format\_try\_infer\_datetimes[​](#input_format_try_infer_datetimes "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_datetimes")

If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type `DateTime64` from string fields in schema inference for text formats. If all fields from a column in input data were successfully parsed as datetimes, the result type will be `DateTime64`, if at least one field was not parsed as datetime, the result type will be `String`.

Enabled by default.

## input\_format\_try\_infer\_datetimes\_only\_datetime64[​](#input_format_try_infer_datetimes_only_datetime64 "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_datetimes_only_datetime64")

When input\_format\_try\_infer\_datetimes is enabled, infer only DateTime64 but not DateTime types

## input\_format\_try\_infer\_exponent\_floats[​](#input_format_try_infer_exponent_floats "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_exponent_floats")

Try to infer floats in exponential notation while schema inference in text formats (except JSON, where exponent numbers are always inferred)

## input\_format\_try\_infer\_integers[​](#input_format_try_infer_integers "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_integers")

If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer integers instead of floats in schema inference for text formats. If all numbers in the column from input data are integers, the result type will be `Int64`, if at least one number is float, the result type will be `Float64`.
