---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-formats.md)#
topic: format-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '2.00'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 24
total_chunks_in_doc: 29
---

│ UInt64 │ 1000. │ 999 │ UInt64 │ └─number─┴─toTypeName(number)─┘ ``` ## output\_format\_pretty\_display\_footer\_column\_names\_min\_rows[​](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows "Direct link to output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows") Sets the minimum number of rows for which a footer with column names will be displayed if setting [output\_format\_pretty\_display\_footer\_column\_names](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names) is enabled.

## output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical[​](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical "Direct link to output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical")

If enabled, and the table is wide but short, the Pretty format will output it as the Vertical format does.
See `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk` and `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width` for detailed tuning of this behavior.

## output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical\_max\_rows\_per\_chunk[​](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk "Direct link to output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk")

The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the number of records in a chunk is not more than the specified value.

## output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical\_min\_columns[​](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_columns "Direct link to output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_columns")

The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the number of columns is greater than the specified value.

## output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical\_min\_table\_width[​](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width "Direct link to output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width")

The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the sum of lengths of columns in a table is at least the specified value, or if at least one value contains a newline character.

## output\_format\_pretty\_glue\_chunks[​](#output_format_pretty_glue_chunks "Direct link to output_format_pretty_glue_chunks")

If the data rendered in Pretty formats arrived in multiple chunks, even after a delay, but the next chunk has the same column widths as the previous, use ANSI escape sequences to move back to the previous line and overwrite the footer of the previous chunk to continue it with the data of the new chunk. This makes the result more visually pleasant.

0 \- disabled, 1 \- enabled, 'auto' \- enabled if a terminal.

## output\_format\_pretty\_grid\_charset[​](#output_format_pretty_grid_charset "Direct link to output_format_pretty_grid_charset")

Charset for printing grid borders. Available charsets: ASCII, UTF\-8 (default).

## output\_format\_pretty\_highlight\_digit\_groups[​](#output_format_pretty_highlight_digit_groups "Direct link to output_format_pretty_highlight_digit_groups")

If enabled and if output is a terminal, highlight every digit corresponding to the number of thousands, millions, etc. with underline.

## output\_format\_pretty\_highlight\_trailing\_spaces[​](#output_format_pretty_highlight_trailing_spaces "Direct link to output_format_pretty_highlight_trailing_spaces")

If enabled and if output is a terminal, highlight trailing spaces with a gray color and underline.

## output\_format\_pretty\_max\_column\_name\_width\_cut\_to[​](#output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to "Direct link to output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to")

If the column name is too long, cut it to this length.
The column will be cut if it is longer than `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to` plus `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut`.

## output\_format\_pretty\_max\_column\_name\_width\_min\_chars\_to\_cut[​](#output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut "Direct link to output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut")
