---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/kill.md)#
topic: kill-statements-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

MUTATION") The presence of long\-running or incomplete mutations often indicates that a ClickHouse service is running poorly. The asynchronous nature of mutations can cause them to consume all available resources on a system. You may need to either:

- Pause all new mutations, `INSERT`s , and `SELECT`s and allow the queue of mutations to complete.
- Or manually kill some of these mutations by sending a `KILL` command.

```
KILL MUTATION
  WHERE <where expression to SELECT FROM system.mutations query>
  [TEST]
  [FORMAT format]

```

Tries to cancel and remove [mutations](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter#mutations) that are currently executing. Mutations to cancel are selected from the [`system.mutations`](/docs/operations/system-tables/mutations) table using the filter specified by the `WHERE` clause of the `KILL` query.

A test query (`TEST`) only checks the user's rights and displays a list of mutations to stop.

Examples:

Get a `count()` of the number of incomplete mutations:

Count of mutations from a single ClickHouse node:

```
SELECT count(*)
FROM system.mutations
WHERE is_done = 0;

```

Count of mutations from a ClickHouse cluster of replicas:

```
SELECT count(*)
FROM clusterAllReplicas('default', system.mutations)
WHERE is_done = 0;

```

Query the list of incomplete mutations:

List of mutations from a single ClickHouse node:

```
SELECT mutation_id, *
FROM system.mutations
WHERE is_done = 0;

```

List of mutations from a ClickHouse cluster:

```
SELECT mutation_id, *
FROM clusterAllReplicas('default', system.mutations)
WHERE is_done = 0;

```

Kill the mutations as needed:

```
-- Cancel and remove all mutations of the single table:
KILL MUTATION WHERE database = 'default' AND table = 'table'

-- Cancel the specific mutation:
KILL MUTATION WHERE database = 'default' AND table = 'table' AND mutation_id = 'mutation_3.txt'

```

The query is useful when a mutation is stuck and cannot finish (e.g. if some function in the mutation query throws an exception when applied to the data contained in the table).

Changes already made by the mutation are not rolled back.

Note`is_killed=1` column (ClickHouse Cloud only) in the [system.mutations](/docs/operations/system-tables/mutations) table does not necessarily mean the mutation is completely finalized. It is possible for a mutation to remain in a state where `is_killed=1` and `is_done=0` for an extended period. This can happen if another long\-running mutation is blocking the killed mutation. This is a normal situation.

[PreviousEXISTS](/docs/sql-reference/statements/exists)[NextOPTIMIZE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/optimize)- [KILL QUERY](#kill-query)- [KILL MUTATION](#kill-mutation)
Was this page helpful?
