---
source: blog
url: https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.8/zookeeperAdmin.html#sc_zkCommands
topic: what-s-new-in-clickhouse-21-12
ch_version_introduced: '21.12'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

clickhouse\-keeper is still considered in pre\-production stage, but many companies already started to evaluate and use it as a replacement of ZooKeeper. You can also start using clickhouse\-keeper in your testing environments and we will appreciate your feedback.

ClickHouse Keeper development started in Sep 2020, more than a year ago. It was a long road, and most of the efforts were to ensure correctness and stability in unusual and exceptional scenarios. It is covered by [Jepsen](https://jepsen.io/) tests (including ZooKeeper tests and [new introduced tests](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/tests/jepsen.clickhouse-keeper)), continuous randomized stress testing with ClickHouse functional and integration tests. It is started to be tested in Yandex Cloud and among our best friends. If you’re pretending to be our best friend, you can also do it.

**How does this help you?**

ClickHouse Keeper is a drop\-in replacement for ZooKeeper. It implements the ZooKeeper wire protocol and data model, but does it better.

In contrast to ZooKeeper, there are no issues with zxid overflow or packet sizes. It has better memory usage and it does not require JVM tuning (because it does not use the JVM). Logs and snapshots are compressed (by about 10x typically) and checksummed. It can run as a separate process or directly inside clickhouse\-server. You can use it with ClickHouse or with your Kafkas and Hadoops as well.

[More info](http://presentations.clickhouse.tech/meetup54/keeper.pdf).

## **Partitions For INSERT INTO File, URL And HDFS Storages** [\#](/blog/whats-new-in-clickhouse-21-12#partitions-for-insert-into-file-url-and-hdfs-storages-)

When using the table engines `File`, `URL`, and `HDFS` ClickHouse now supports partitions. When creating a table you can specify the partition key using the `PARTITION BY` clause e.g. `CREATE TABLE hits_files (...) ENGINE = File(TabSeparated) PARTITION BY toYYYYMM(EventDate)`.

Similarly, when exporting data from ClickHouse using the `file`, `url`, and `hdfs` table functions you can now specify that the data is to be partitioned into multiple files using a `PARTITION BY` clause. For example, `INSERT INTO TABLE FUNCTION file('path/hits_{_partition_id}', 'TSV', 'columns...') PARTITION BY toYYYYMM(EventDate) VALUES ...` will create as many files as there are unique months in the dataset.

The `s3` table function has already supported partitioned writes since ClickHouse 21\.10\.

**How does this help you?**

If data is split into multiple files, `SELECT` queries will be automatically parallelized. For example:

```
SELECT user_id, count() FROM s3(
    'https://s3.us-east-2.amazonaws.com/.../*.csv.zstd',
    '...', '...',
    CSV,
    'user_id UInt64, ...')

```
