---
source: blog
url: https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.4.8/zookeeperAdmin.html#sc_zkCommands
topic: what-s-new-in-clickhouse-21-12
ch_version_introduced: '21.12'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

allows to represent values as “true”/”false” during data import and export in text formats. It can also be adjusted to anything else using the settings `bool_true_representation` and `bool_false_representation` (for example, “yes” and “no”). **How does this help you?**

Native boolean data types exist today in other databases that are often integrated with ClickHouse, such as PostgreSQL. The `Bool` data type in ClickHouse will make it more compatible with existing code and ease migration from other databases.

Also it simplifies data ingestion from various text sources.

## **Query Optimizations With Table Constraints** [\#](/blog/whats-new-in-clickhouse-21-12#query-optimizations-with-table-constraints-)

This feature is [contributed](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/18787) by **Nikita Vasilev**. Nikita is one of the most notable ClickHouse contributors. He started in 2019 by introducing data skipping indices into ClickHouse, then continued in 2020 with SSD\-optimized key\-value dictionaries and now contributed the new advancements in the query optimizer. This feature is reviewed by **Anton Popov**.

So, what optimizations? ClickHouse already allows to specify constraints for tables:

```
CREATE TABLE
(
    URL String,
    Domain String,
    CONSTRAINT validate CHECK isValidUTF8(URL) AND length(URL) BETWEEN 10 AND 10000,
    CONSTRAINT my_constraint CHECK Domain = domainWithoutWWW(URL)
) ...

```

Constraints are checked on `INSERT`. In this example we validate the URL and check that the `Domain` column actually contains the domain of the URL.

Since version 21\.12 constraints can also automatically optimize your queries! For example, if you write:

```
SELECT count() FROM hits WHERE domainWithoutWWW(URL) = 'ghe.clickhouse.tech'

```

The query can be automatically rewritten to:

```
SELECT count() FROM hits WHERE Domain = 'ghe.clickhouse.tech'

```

Because the `Domain` column is smaller and more compressable it will be faster to read and does not require calculation of the domain from the URL.

The only thing you need to do is to enable the `optimize_using_constraints` and `optimize_substitute_columns` settings.

As a bonus, we introduced a new type of constraint: `ASSUME`.

```
CONSTRAINT my_constraint ASSUME Domain = domainWithoutWWW(URL)

```

This type of constraint will not check anything on `INSERT` but still use the assumption to optimize the queries.

It can also do logical inference, simplify the conditions and remove the conditions that are proved to be satisfied by constraints.

It is controlled by the `convert_query_to_cnf` setting. You can also enable `optimize_append_index`. With this setting ClickHouse will derive more conditions on the table primary key.
