---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: real-time-event-streaming-with-clickhouse-kafka-connect-and-confluent-cloud
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

$6 per day for Confluent. ## Confluent Cloud \& Custom Connectors [\#](/blog/real-time-event-streaming-with-kafka-connect-confluent-cloud-clickhouse#confluent-cloud--custom-connectors) Apache Kafka is a ubiquitous open\-source distributed event streaming platform that thousands of companies use for high\-performance data pipelines, streaming analytics, data integration, and mission\-critical applications.

As well as maintaining and distributing an enterprise version of Kafka, Confluent offers a fully\-managed Cloud environment where users can deploy Kafka. This includes a managed offering of the Kafka Connect framework, a component of Kafka that works as a centralized data hub for simple data integration between databases, key\-value stores, search indexes, and file systems. Historically, users could only deploy officially supported connectors in Confluent Cloud, simply defining the level of parallelism (tasks) without needing to worry about managing the associated infrastructure.

Recently, Confluent extended this offering with support for [Custom Connectors](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/connectors/bring-your-connector/overview.html). This allows users to deploy any Java\-based connector built on the Kafka connect framework by simply uploading the compiled package and specifying the key configuration details. These connectors can, in turn, be deployed using the same managed offering as official connectors owned by Confluent.

Here at ClickHouse, we often see users using Kafka streaming capabilities to process and buffer events prior to inserting them into ClickHouse for [real\-time analytics](https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/what-is-real-time-analytics). This offering is, therefore, exciting for ClickHouse Cloud users and existing Confluent customers, who can now easily stream data between their Kafka topics and ClickHouse instances using the official ClickHouse Kafka Connect connector without worrying about managing infrastructure.

The full documentation for Confluent’s Custom Connector and the currently supported AWS regions can be found here.

## Test Dataset [\#](/blog/real-time-event-streaming-with-kafka-connect-confluent-cloud-clickhouse#test-dataset)

For our test dataset, we use an Ethereum Cryptocurrency dataset made available by Google in a public project.

No prior experience with crypto is required for reading this blog post, but for those interested, the Introduction to Ethereum provides a useful overview, as well as Google’s blog on [how this dataset](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/data-analytics/ethereum-bigquery-how-we-built-dataset) was constructed.

In summary, our dataset consists of 4 tables. This is a subset of the full data but is sufficient for most common questions:
