---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: real-time-event-streaming-with-clickhouse-kafka-connect-and-confluent-cloud
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

to the [recommended size](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/bestpractices/bulk-inserts). More importantly, this default can result in an insert rate greater than 1 per second. When scaling the number of tasks for throughput, the above can result in issues such as “[too many parts](https://clickhouse.com/docs/knowledgebase/exception-too-many-parts)”.

To address this, the user should enable [Asynchronous Inserts](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/bestpractices/asynchronous-inserts) in ClickHouse. This will cause ClickHouse to batch inserts using a disk\-based buffer prior to insertion into the underlying table. This ensures large blocks of data are inserted, preventing issues such as “too many parts”. However, this approach is not currently compatible with the exactly\-once semantics of the connector, which [relies on the deduplication properties of normal inserts](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-kafka-connect/blob/main/docs/DESIGN.md) (i.e., inserts of identical data are deduplicated within a window period). While recent releases of ClickHouse support deduplication for asynchronous inserts, this feature is experimental and has not been tested with the exactly\-once mode of the connector.

> We are working with Confluent to expose relevant Kafka Connect settings to deliver larger batches.

- As of the time of writing, the Confluent custom connector interface provides only summary logs. These are often insufficient to diagnose issues. Fortunately, all connectors will create a topic containing logs. The log messages in this topic can be downloaded and examined for debugging purposes. We plan to improve this workload by [ensuring relevant debug information is surfaced in the summary logs](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-kafka-connect/issues/121), minimizing the effort needed to diagnose issues.

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/real-time-event-streaming-with-kafka-connect-confluent-cloud-clickhouse#conclusion)

In this blog post, we have explored how Confluent Cloud’s new Custom Connector offering can be used to build a zero\-code Kafka pipeline for moving data from Google Pub/Sub to ClickHouse Cloud. For our example dataset, we used the events made available by Google for the Ethereum blockchain and the pipeline to maintain the public dataset in sql.clickhouse.com in near real\-time.

The clickHouse\-kafka\-connect sink is in active development at the moment, thanks to the great feedback users are reporting in the [repository](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-kafka-connect/issues) or via our [community Slack](https://clickhouse.com/slack). Our plan is to continue improving the production readiness of this connector over the next few months, targeting a GA version of the connector in Q3 this year. If you want to join this effort, don’t hesitate to reach out to us! As always with ClickHouse, any contribution is welcome!
