---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/permissions-for-queries.md)#
topic: permissions-for-queries-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 1
---

# Permissions for queries \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Settings](/docs/operations/settings)- Permissions for queries
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/permissions-for-queries.md)# Permissions for queries

Queries in ClickHouse can be divided into several types:

1. Read data queries: `SELECT`, `SHOW`, `DESCRIBE`, `EXISTS`.
2. Write data queries: `INSERT`, `OPTIMIZE`.
3. Change settings query: `SET`, `USE`.
4. [DDL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_definition_language) queries: `CREATE`, `ALTER`, `RENAME`, `ATTACH`, `DETACH`, `DROP` `TRUNCATE`.
5. `KILL QUERY`.

The following settings regulate user permissions by the type of query:

## readonly[​](#readonly "Direct link to readonly")

Restricts permissions for read data, write data, and change settings queries.

When set to 1, allows:

- All types of read queries (like SELECT and equivalent queries).
- Queries that modify only session context (like USE).

When set to 2, allows the above plus:

- SET and CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE

TipQueries like EXISTS, DESCRIBE, EXPLAIN, SHOW PROCESSLIST, etc are equivalent to SELECT, because they just do select from system tables.

Possible values:

- 0 — Read, Write, and Change settings queries are allowed.
- 1 — Only Read data queries are allowed.
- 2 — Read data and Change settings queries are allowed.

Default value: 0

NoteAfter setting `readonly = 1`, the user can't change `readonly` and `allow_ddl` settings in the current session.When using the `GET` method in the [HTTP interface](/docs/interfaces/http), `readonly = 1` is set automatically. To modify data, use the `POST` method.Setting `readonly = 1` prohibits the user from changing settings. There is a way to prohibit the user from changing only specific settings. Also there is a way to allow changing only specific settings under `readonly = 1` restrictions. For details see [constraints on settings](/docs/operations/settings/constraints-on-settings).

## allow\_ddl[​](#allow_ddl "Direct link to allow_ddl")

Allows or denies [DDL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Data_definition_language) queries.

Possible values:

- 0 — DDL queries are not allowed.
- 1 — DDL queries are allowed.

Default value: 1

NoteYou cannot run `SET allow_ddl = 1` if `allow_ddl = 0` for the current session.

KILL QUERY`KILL QUERY` can be performed with any combination of readonly and allow\_ddl settings.

[PreviousMemory overcommit](/docs/operations/settings/memory-overcommit)[NextRestrictions on query complexity](/docs/operations/settings/query-complexity)- [readonly](#readonly)- [allow\_ddl](#allow_ddl)
Was this page helpful?
