---
source: blog
url: https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/case-studies/seon-clickhouse/
topic: seon-achieves-80-faster-database-performance-for-anti-fraud-platform-with-clickhouse-on-aws
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

with linking email addresses, phone numbers, IP addresses, device IDs, and social media accounts. Using additional datasets and pulling in customer\-specific rule sets, the platform applies machine learning algorithms and generates a risk score for transactions in seconds.

As the company expanded, so did the volume of transactions and events that needed to be processed in near real\-time. This growth presented opportunities to optimize performance, particularly for enterprise clients with sophisticated rule sets. While smaller customers typically used around 30 rule sets, larger enterprise clients benefited from implementing up to 1,000 customized rules. During this expansion, certain industries, such as iGaming platforms and payment providers, expressed interest in even more responsive performance and enhanced speed for fraud detection scans, all aligning with their business requirements.

SEON's engineering\-led team began to look at alternative databases to raise performance levels and increase decision times. "We needed sub\-second latency and we knew we had to make those decisions at massive volumes," says Adam Berkecz, vice president of architecture at SEON.

### Get started today

Interested in seeing how ClickHouse works on your data? Get started with ClickHouse Cloud in minutes and receive $300 in free credits.

[Sign up](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog)
## Solution \| A managed service and a rich collaboration with partners [\#](/blog/seon-clickhouse-aws#solution--a-managed-service-and-a-rich-collaboration-with-partners)

SEON's engineers were aware of ClickHouse's open\-source database and began to explore its capabilities. The column\-oriented online analytic processing (OLAP) database is designed for rapid processing of huge datasets in real time. After initial discussions with ClickHouse, SEON also met with the company's founding team at [AWS re](https://reinvent.awsevents.com/), where it gained insights into the technology's capabilities and the development roadmap. 

SEON soon realized that, although the technology was a great fit, hosting and maintaining it was no simple task. It engaged with ClickHouse about running a managed service for it on AWS and working together to optimize performance. "With just a few clicks, we could spin up our cluster and start work without having to train our database administration team to use another database engine," says Berkecz. SEON's engineering team worked closely with ClickHouse, and its AWS solution architect, to optimize performance and quickly uncovered opportunities for significant improvements.
