---
source: blog
url: https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/case-studies/seon-clickhouse/
topic: seon-achieves-80-faster-database-performance-for-anti-fraud-platform-with-clickhouse-on-aws
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

work without having to train our database administration team to use another database engine," says Berkecz. SEON's engineering team worked closely with ClickHouse, and its AWS solution architect, to optimize performance and quickly uncovered opportunities for significant improvements.

Berkecz appreciates the team at ClickHouse. "We have a proactive relationship with ClickHouse and they are so enthusiastic about our platform," says Berkecz. "We're an engineering company and we always want to know what's going on under the hood. Whenever we tell them we need to improve things, they always listen, and they deliver."

The initial optimization project was completed in 6 months, but the teams soon found another application for the ClickHouse database. One of the more advanced fraud analytics actions that SEON performs is called a clone search. This uncovers linked fraud activity by identifying replicated customer data in multiple fraudulent accounts. The same email addresses, IP addresses, or device IDs are used by criminals to create multiple fake identities. Because of the intensive processing needed to run this analysis, scan results were asynchronous, unlike SEON's typical near real\-time fraud screening. However, during an architectural review meeting, one of SEON's engineers, who was also working on the ClickHouse integration project, suggested running the workflow on the new database. Again, the results were positive.

The ClickHouse database runs on AWS. SEON uses [Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/) (Amazon EC2\) for compute power and uses [Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service](https://aws.amazon.com/eks/) (Amazon EKS) to orchestrate and manage its Amazon EC2 instances. "Amazon EKS can scale up and down so easily and even self\-heal in some situations," says Berkecz.

## Outcome \| Tests delivered ‘even lower latencies than expected’ [\#](/blog/seon-clickhouse-aws#outcome--tests-delivered-even-lower-latencies-than-expected)
