---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md)#
topic: mergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 31
---

BY intHash32(UserID) ORDER BY (CounterID, EventDate, intHash32(UserID))`. #### TTL[ŌĆŗ](#ttl "Direct link to TTL") `TTL` ŌĆö A list of rules that specify the storage duration of rows and the logic of automatic parts movement [between disks and volumes](#table_engine-mergetree-multiple-volumes). Optional.

Expression must result in a `Date` or `DateTime`, e.g. `TTL date + INTERVAL 1 DAY`.

Type of the rule `DELETE|TO DISK 'xxx'|TO VOLUME 'xxx'|GROUP BY` specifies an action to be done with the part if the expression is satisfied (reaches current time): removal of expired rows, moving a part (if expression is satisfied for all rows in a part) to specified disk (`TO DISK 'xxx'`) or to volume (`TO VOLUME 'xxx'`), or aggregating values in expired rows. Default type of the rule is removal (`DELETE`). List of multiple rules can be specified, but there should be no more than one `DELETE` rule.


For more details, see [TTL for columns and tables](#table_engine-mergetree-ttl)

#### SETTINGS[ŌĆŗ](#settings "Direct link to SETTINGS")

See [MergeTree Settings](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings).

**Example of Sections Setting**

```
ENGINE MergeTree() PARTITION BY toYYYYMM(EventDate) ORDER BY (CounterID, EventDate, intHash32(UserID)) SAMPLE BY intHash32(UserID) SETTINGS index_granularity=8192

```

In the example, we set partitioning by month.

We also set an expression for sampling as a hash by the user ID. This allows you to pseudorandomize the data in the table for each `CounterID` and `EventDate`. If you define a [SAMPLE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/sample) clause when selecting the data, ClickHouse will return an evenly pseudorandom data sample for a subset of users.

The `index_granularity` setting can be omitted because 8192 is the default value.

Deprecated Method for Creating a TableNoteDo not use this method in new projects. If possible, switch old projects to the method described above.

```
CREATE TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] [db.]table_name [ON CLUSTER cluster]
(
    name1 [type1] [DEFAULT|MATERIALIZED|ALIAS expr1],
    name2 [type2] [DEFAULT|MATERIALIZED|ALIAS expr2],
    ...
) ENGINE [=] MergeTree(date-column [, sampling_expression], (primary, key), index_granularity)

```
**MergeTree() Parameters**- `date-column` ŌĆö The name of a column of the [Date](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/date) type. ClickHouse automatically creates partitions by month based on this column. The partition names are in the `"YYYYMM"` format.
- `sampling_expression` ŌĆö An expression for sampling.
- `(primary, key)` ŌĆö Primary key. Type: [Tuple()](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/tuple)
- `index_granularity` ŌĆö The granularity of an index. The number of data rows between the "marks" of an index. The value 8192 is appropriate for most tasks.
