---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md)#
topic: mergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 31
---

expression for sampling. - `(primary, key)` — Primary key. Type: [Tuple()](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/tuple) - `index_granularity` — The granularity of an index. The number of data rows between the "marks" of an index. The value 8192 is appropriate for most tasks.

**Example**
```
MergeTree(EventDate, intHash32(UserID), (CounterID, EventDate, intHash32(UserID)), 8192)

```
The `MergeTree` engine is configured in the same way as in the example above for the main engine configuration method.

## Data storage[​](#mergetree-data-storage "Direct link to Data storage")

A table consists of data parts sorted by primary key.

When data is inserted in a table, separate data parts are created and each of them is lexicographically sorted by primary key. For example, if the primary key is `(CounterID, Date)`, the data in the part is sorted by `CounterID`, and within each `CounterID`, it is ordered by `Date`.

Data belonging to different partitions are separated into different parts. In the background, ClickHouse merges data parts for more efficient storage. Parts belonging to different partitions are not merged. The merge mechanism does not guarantee that all rows with the same primary key will be in the same data part.

Data parts can be stored in `Wide` or `Compact` format. In `Wide` format each column is stored in a separate file in a filesystem, in `Compact` format all columns are stored in one file. `Compact` format can be used to increase performance of small and frequent inserts.

Data storing format is controlled by the `min_bytes_for_wide_part` and `min_rows_for_wide_part` settings of the table engine. If the number of bytes or rows in a data part is less then the corresponding setting's value, the part is stored in `Compact` format. Otherwise it is stored in `Wide` format. If none of these settings is set, data parts are stored in `Wide` format.
