---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md)#
topic: mergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 31
---

a data part is less then the corresponding setting's value, the part is stored in `Compact` format. Otherwise it is stored in `Wide` format. If none of these settings is set, data parts are stored in `Wide` format.

Each data part is logically divided into granules. A granule is the smallest indivisible data set that ClickHouse reads when selecting data. ClickHouse does not split rows or values, so each granule always contains an integer number of rows. The first row of a granule is marked with the value of the primary key for the row. For each data part, ClickHouse creates an index file that stores the marks. For each column, whether it's in the primary key or not, ClickHouse also stores the same marks. These marks let you find data directly in column files.

The granule size is restricted by the `index_granularity` and `index_granularity_bytes` settings of the table engine. The number of rows in a granule lays in the `[1, index_granularity]` range, depending on the size of the rows. The size of a granule can exceed `index_granularity_bytes` if the size of a single row is greater than the value of the setting. In this case, the size of the granule equals the size of the row.

## Primary Keys and Indexes in Queries[​](#primary-keys-and-indexes-in-queries "Direct link to Primary Keys and Indexes in Queries")

Take the `(CounterID, Date)` primary key as an example. In this case, the sorting and index can be illustrated as follows:

```
Whole data:     [---------------------------------------------]
CounterID:      [aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaabbbbcdeeeeeeeeeeeeefgggggggghhhhhhhhhiiiiiiiiikllllllll]
Date:           [1111111222222233331233211111222222333211111112122222223111112223311122333]
Marks:           |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
                a,1    a,2    a,3    b,3    e,2    e,3    g,1    h,2    i,1    i,3    l,3
Marks numbers:   0      1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10

```

If the data query specifies:

- `CounterID in ('a', 'h')`, the server reads the data in the ranges of marks `[0, 3)` and `[6, 8)`.
- `CounterID IN ('a', 'h') AND Date = 3`, the server reads the data in the ranges of marks `[1, 3)` and `[7, 8)`.
- `Date = 3`, the server reads the data in the range of marks `[1, 10]`.

The examples above show that it is always more effective to use an index than a full scan.
