---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md)#
topic: mergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 31
---

3)` and `[7, 8)`. - `Date = 3`, the server reads the data in the range of marks `[1, 10]`. The examples above show that it is always more effective to use an index than a full scan.

A sparse index allows extra data to be read. When reading a single range of the primary key, up to `index_granularity * 2` extra rows in each data block can be read.

Sparse indexes allow you to work with a very large number of table rows, because in most cases, such indexes fit in the computer's RAM.

ClickHouse does not require a unique primary key. You can insert multiple rows with the same primary key.

You can use `Nullable`\-typed expressions in the `PRIMARY KEY` and `ORDER BY` clauses but it is strongly discouraged. To allow this feature, turn on the [allow\_nullable\_key](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#allow_nullable_key) setting. The [NULLS\_LAST](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/order-by#sorting-of-special-values) principle applies for `NULL` values in the `ORDER BY` clause.

### Selecting a primary key[​](#selecting-a-primary-key "Direct link to Selecting a primary key")

The number of columns in the primary key is not explicitly limited. Depending on the data structure, you can include more or fewer columns in the primary key. This may:

- Improve the performance of an index.

If the primary key is `(a, b)`, then adding another column `c` will improve the performance if the following conditions are met:

	- There are queries with a condition on column `c`.
	- Long data ranges (several times longer than the `index_granularity`) with identical values for `(a, b)` are common. In other words, when adding another column allows you to skip quite long data ranges.
- Improve data compression.

ClickHouse sorts data by primary key, so the higher the consistency, the better the compression.
- Provide additional logic when merging data parts in the [CollapsingMergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/collapsingmergetree) and [SummingMergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/summingmergetree) engines.

In this case it makes sense to specify the *sorting key* that is different from the primary key.

A long primary key will negatively affect the insert performance and memory consumption, but extra columns in the primary key do not affect ClickHouse performance during `SELECT` queries.
