---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md)#
topic: mergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 31
---

the *sorting key* that is different from the primary key. A long primary key will negatively affect the insert performance and memory consumption, but extra columns in the primary key do not affect ClickHouse performance during `SELECT` queries.

You can create a table without a primary key using the `ORDER BY tuple()` syntax. In this case, ClickHouse stores data in the order of inserting. If you want to save data order when inserting data by `INSERT ... SELECT` queries, set [max\_insert\_threads \= 1](/docs/operations/settings/settings#max_insert_threads).

To select data in the initial order, use [single\-threaded](/docs/operations/settings/settings#max_threads) `SELECT` queries.

### Choosing a primary key that differs from the sorting key[​](#choosing-a-primary-key-that-differs-from-the-sorting-key "Direct link to Choosing a primary key that differs from the sorting key")

It is possible to specify a primary key (an expression with values that are written in the index file for each mark) that is different from the sorting key (an expression for sorting the rows in data parts). In this case the primary key expression tuple must be a prefix of the sorting key expression tuple.

This feature is helpful when using the [SummingMergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/summingmergetree) and
[AggregatingMergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/aggregatingmergetree) table engines. In a common case when using these engines, the table has two types of columns: *dimensions* and *measures*. Typical queries aggregate values of measure columns with arbitrary `GROUP BY` and filtering by dimensions. Because SummingMergeTree and AggregatingMergeTree aggregate rows with the same value of the sorting key, it is natural to add all dimensions to it. As a result, the key expression consists of a long list of columns and this list must be frequently updated with newly added dimensions.

In this case it makes sense to leave only a few columns in the primary key that will provide efficient range scans and add the remaining dimension columns to the sorting key tuple.

[ALTER](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter) of the sorting key is a lightweight operation because when a new column is simultaneously added to the table and to the sorting key, existing data parts do not need to be changed. Since the old sorting key is a prefix of the new sorting key and there is no data in the newly added column, the data is sorted by both the old and new sorting keys at the moment of table modification.
