---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md)#
topic: mergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 31
---

sorting key is a prefix of the new sorting key and there is no data in the newly added column, the data is sorted by both the old and new sorting keys at the moment of table modification.

### Use of indexes and partitions in queries[​](#use-of-indexes-and-partitions-in-queries "Direct link to Use of indexes and partitions in queries")

For `SELECT` queries, ClickHouse analyzes whether an index can be used. An index can be used if the `WHERE/PREWHERE` clause has an expression (as one of the conjunction elements, or entirely) that represents an equality or inequality comparison operation, or if it has `IN` or `LIKE` with a fixed prefix on columns or expressions that are in the primary key or partitioning key, or on certain partially repetitive functions of these columns, or logical relationships of these expressions.

Thus, it is possible to quickly run queries on one or many ranges of the primary key. In this example, queries will be fast when run for a specific tracking tag, for a specific tag and date range, for a specific tag and date, for multiple tags with a date range, and so on.

Let's look at the engine configured as follows:

```
ENGINE MergeTree()
PARTITION BY toYYYYMM(EventDate)
ORDER BY (CounterID, EventDate)
SETTINGS index_granularity=8192

```

In this case, in queries:

```
SELECT count() FROM table
WHERE EventDate = toDate(now())
AND CounterID = 34

SELECT count() FROM table
WHERE EventDate = toDate(now())
AND (CounterID = 34 OR CounterID = 42)

SELECT count() FROM table
WHERE ((EventDate >= toDate('2014-01-01')
AND EventDate <= toDate('2014-01-31')) OR EventDate = toDate('2014-05-01'))
AND CounterID IN (101500, 731962, 160656)
AND (CounterID = 101500 OR EventDate != toDate('2014-05-01'))

```

ClickHouse will use the primary key index to trim improper data and the monthly partitioning key to trim partitions that are in improper date ranges.

The queries above show that the index is used even for complex expressions. Reading from the table is organized so that using the index can't be slower than a full scan.

In the example below, the index can't be used.

```
SELECT count() FROM table WHERE CounterID = 34 OR URL LIKE '%upyachka%'

```

To check whether ClickHouse can use the index when running a query, use the settings [force\_index\_by\_date](/docs/operations/settings/settings#force_index_by_date) and [force\_primary\_key](/docs/operations/settings/settings#force_primary_key).
