---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md)#
topic: mergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 31
---

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | Functions with a constant argument that is less than ngram size can't be used by `ngrambf_v1` for query optimization.

(\*) For `hasTokenCaseInsensitive` and `hasTokenCaseInsensitiveOrNull` to be effective, the `tokenbf_v1` index must be created on lowercased data, for example `INDEX idx (lower(str_col)) TYPE tokenbf_v1(512, 3, 0)`.

NoteBloom filters can have false positive matches, so the `ngrambf_v1`, `tokenbf_v1`, `sparse_grams`, and `bloom_filter` indexes can not be used for optimizing queries where the result of a function is expected to be false.For example:- Can be optimized:
	- `s LIKE '%test%'`
	- `NOT s NOT LIKE '%test%'`
	- `s = 1`
	- `NOT s != 1`
	- `startsWith(s, 'test')`
- Can not be optimized:
	- `NOT s LIKE '%test%'`
	- `s NOT LIKE '%test%'`
	- `NOT s = 1`
	- `s != 1`
	- `NOT startsWith(s, 'test')`

## Projections[​](#projections "Direct link to Projections")

Projections are like [materialized views](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/view) but defined in part\-level. It provides consistency guarantees along with automatic usage in queries.

NoteWhen you are implementing projections you should also consider the [force\_optimize\_projection](/docs/operations/settings/settings#force_optimize_projection) setting.

Projections are not supported in the `SELECT` statements with the [FINAL](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/from#final-modifier) modifier.

### Projection query[​](#projection-query "Direct link to Projection query")

A projection query is what defines a projection. It implicitly selects data from the parent table.
**Syntax**

```
SELECT <column list expr> [GROUP BY] <group keys expr> [ORDER BY] <expr>

```

Projections can be modified or dropped with the [ALTER](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/projection) statement.

### Projection indexes[​](#projection-index "Direct link to Projection indexes")

Projection indexes extend the projection subsystem by providing a lightweight and explicit way to define projection\-level indexes.
Externally, a projection index is still a projection, but with simplified syntax and clearer intent: it defines an expression which is dedicated to filtering, rather than serving materialized data.
Internally, a projection index does not materialize the original table in permuted row order like a regular projection.
Instead, the permutation is stored in the form of a numeric permutation column `_part_offset`, i.e. `SELECT _part_offset ORDER BY <index_expr>`.

#### Syntax[​](#projection-index-syntax "Direct link to Syntax")

```
PROJECTION <name> INDEX <index_expr> TYPE <index_type>

```

Example:
