---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md)#
topic: mergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 31
---

a regular projection. Instead, the permutation is stored in the form of a numeric permutation column `_part_offset`, i.e. `SELECT _part_offset ORDER BY <index_expr>`. #### Syntax[​](#projection-index-syntax "Direct link to Syntax") ``` PROJECTION <name> INDEX <index_expr> TYPE <index_type> ``` Example:

```
CREATE TABLE example
(
    id UInt64,
    region String,
    user_id UInt32,
    PROJECTION region_proj INDEX region TYPE basic,
    PROJECTION uid_proj INDEX user_id TYPE basic
)
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY id;

```

#### Index types[​](#projection-index-types "Direct link to Index types")

Currently supported:

- **basic**: equivalent to a normal MergeTree index on the expression.

The framework allows adding more index types in the future.

### Projection storage[​](#projection-storage "Direct link to Projection storage")

Projections are stored inside the part directory. It's similar to an index but contains a subdirectory that stores an anonymous `MergeTree` table's part. The table is induced by the definition query of the projection. If there is a `GROUP BY` clause, the underlying storage engine becomes [AggregatingMergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/aggregatingmergetree), and all aggregate functions are converted to `AggregateFunction`. If there is an `ORDER BY` clause, the `MergeTree` table uses it as its primary key expression. During the merge process the projection part is merged via its storage's merge routine. The checksum of the parent table's part is combined with the projection's part. Other maintenance jobs are similar to skip indices.

### Query analysis[​](#projection-query-analysis "Direct link to Query analysis")

1. Check if the projection can be used to answer the given query, that is, it generates the same answer as querying the base table.
2. Select the best feasible match, which contains the least granules to read.
3. The query pipeline which uses projections will be different from the one that uses the original parts. If the projection is absent in some parts, we can add the pipeline to "project" it on the fly.

## Concurrent data access[​](#concurrent-data-access "Direct link to Concurrent data access")

For concurrent table access, we use multi\-versioning. In other words, when a table is simultaneously read and updated, data is read from a set of parts that is current at the time of the query. There are no lengthy locks. Inserts do not get in the way of read operations.

Reading from a table is automatically parallelized.

## TTL for columns and tables[​](#table_engine-mergetree-ttl "Direct link to TTL for columns and tables")

Determines the lifetime of values.
