---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree.md)#
topic: mergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 25
total_chunks_in_doc: 31
---

apply one of the configured storage policies to it: ``` CREATE TABLE table_with_non_default_policy ( EventDate Date, OrderID UInt64, BannerID UInt64, SearchPhrase String ) ENGINE = MergeTree ORDER BY (OrderID, BannerID) PARTITION BY toYYYYMM(EventDate) SETTINGS storage_policy = 'moving_from_ssd_to_hdd' ```

The `default` storage policy implies using only one volume, which consists of only one disk given in `<path>`.
You could change storage policy after table creation with \[ALTER TABLE ... MODIFY SETTING] query, new policy should include all old disks and volumes with same names.

The number of threads performing background moves of data parts can be changed by [background\_move\_pool\_size](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#background_move_pool_size) setting.

### Details[​](#details "Direct link to Details")

In the case of `MergeTree` tables, data is getting to disk in different ways:

- As a result of an insert (`INSERT` query).
- During background merges and [mutations](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter#mutations).
- When downloading from another replica.
- As a result of partition freezing [ALTER TABLE ... FREEZE PARTITION](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition#freeze-partition).

In all these cases except for mutations and partition freezing, a part is stored on a volume and a disk according to the given storage policy:

1. The first volume (in the order of definition) that has enough disk space for storing a part (`unreserved_space > current_part_size`) and allows for storing parts of a given size (`max_data_part_size_bytes > current_part_size`) is chosen.
2. Within this volume, that disk is chosen that follows the one, which was used for storing the previous chunk of data, and that has free space more than the part size (`unreserved_space - keep_free_space_bytes > current_part_size`).

Under the hood, mutations and partition freezing make use of [hard links](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hard_link). Hard links between different disks are not supported, therefore in such cases the resulting parts are stored on the same disks as the initial ones.

In the background, parts are moved between volumes on the basis of the amount of free space (`move_factor` parameter) according to the order the volumes are declared in the configuration file.
Data is never transferred from the last one and into the first one. One may use system tables [system.part\_log](/docs/operations/system-tables/part_log) (field `type = MOVE_PART`) and [system.parts](/docs/operations/system-tables/parts) (fields `path` and `disk`) to monitor background moves. Also, the detailed information can be found in server logs.
