---
source: blog
url: https://upollo.ai/
topic: scaling-predictive-insights-upollo-s-journey-from-bigquery-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

workarounds and duplications, while handling the big analytical queries that power Upollo’s predictive capabilities. Performance and reliability were essential, and they wanted a platform backed by a strong community to make sure it would keep improving over time.

“There’s a lot of interesting, amazing products out there, but we wanted a solution that we knew was used at the scale we needed and had a community of companies pushing for it to get better over time,” Cayden says.

They also prioritized finding a managed service that would let them avoid the hassle of maintaining the database themselves. “We don’t want our engineers spending their time on upgrades, patches, and maintenance,” Cayden says. “We’d rather them focus on developing new features and building an amazing product.”

They were familiar with ClickHouse through the open\-source community and had seen it discussed on platforms like Hacker News, particularly for event\-heavy workloads. Comparing benchmarks on [ClickBench](https://benchmark.clickhouse.com/) and reading about other companies’ experience moving similar workloads, it became clear that ClickHouse might be the solution they were looking for. With its managed service offering, along with an active community and open\-source foundation, the OLAP database promised to simplify Upollo’s workflows and support its vision for an efficient, scalable data infrastructure. 

“We decided to give it a shot, see if it could handle our workloads, and decide if it made good long\-term sense for us,” Cayden says.

## ClickHouse in action [\#](/blog/upollos-journey-from-bigquery-to-clickhouse#clickhouse-in-action)

Cayden migrated Upollo’s core data to ClickHouse Cloud in just 30 minutes one afternoon. Setup was easy, allowing the team to quickly load and interact with their data. “We’ve been able to ingest very large batches of data very efficiently and very quickly,” Cayden says, highlighting their use of [ClickPipes](https://clickhouse.com/cloud/clickpipes) to move huge batches of event data in minutes.

For Upollo’s team and business, the impact has been massive. Not only has ClickHouse’s performance made queries up to 20 times faster, it has unlocked capabilities Upollo couldn’t even attempt before. As Cayden explains, “We had customers asking to combine filters to identify more people to sell to. This would take minutes or time out before, and now it’s there instantly.”
