---
source: blog
url: https://upollo.ai/
topic: scaling-predictive-insights-upollo-s-journey-from-bigquery-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

team has been helpful, giving advice on flags to work around these challenges, making changes to the core product, putting things on the roadmap,” Cayden says. “We still run into OOMs occasionally, but far less frequently than before.”

Around the same time Upollo adopted ClickHouse, they also introduced [dbt](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/dbt) (data build tool) to streamline their data workflows. dbt Cloud didn’t support ClickHouse, so the Upollo team created their own tooling to bridge the gap. When they reported a long\-standing bug that was blocking them, the ClickHouse team jumped in the next day to provide a fix.

Throughout the transition, they’ve needed to tune ClickHouse’s various flags and settings to optimize performance. “There are some sharp edges,” Cayden says, noting that running ClickHouse straight out of the box might not always deliver peak performance. But ClickHouse’s team has offered guidance, he says, helping Upollo’s engineers tune the platform to handle their unique, data\-heavy workloads.

## Growing with ClickHouse [\#](/blog/upollos-journey-from-bigquery-to-clickhouse#growing-with-clickhouse)

For anyone considering ClickHouse Cloud, Cayden’s advice is simple: give it a try. “It’s easier than you think to get data across and start playing with it,” he says, adding that ClickHouse’s trial credits make it easy to explore and test the database 

ClickHouse’s open\-source community and comprehensive documentation made Upollo’s transition much smoother. '”There are some incredible resources available,” Cayden says. He also suggests reaching out to the friendly folks at ClickHouse to join beta programs, noting that it's a great way to get early access to new features—”as long as you're comfortable with being on the bleeding\-edge."

With their core data moved over, Cayden and the team look forward to deepening their relationship with ClickHouse by migrating additional workloads and taking advantage of new features like inverted indexes. “Our dream state is for all of our analytical workloads and queries that can run performantly on ClickHouse, be running on Clickhouse,” he says.

For Upollo, the move to ClickHouse has improved cost efficiency and performance, allowing them to scale and deliver predictive insights to customers without the constraints they faced previously. Queries run faster, large data batches are ingested in minutes, and Upollo’s engineers can focus on innovation rather than maintenance. 

“ClickHouse lets us scale in a cost effective way that BigQuery simply couldn’t,” Cayden says.
