---
source: blog
url: https://sql.clickhouse.com/?query=c2VsZWN0ICogZnJvbSBzeXN0ZW0uZm9ybWF0cyBXSEVSRSBpc19pbnB1dCBPUkRFUiBCWSBuYW1lOw&chart=eyJ0eXBlIjoibGluZSIsImNvbmZpZyI6eyJ4YXhpcyI6InllYXIiLCJ5YXhpcyI6Ijk5dGhfYXZnX3RlbXAiLCJzZXJpZXMiOiJjb3VudHJ5IiwidGl0bGUiOiJUZW1wZXJhdHVyZSBieSBjb3VudHJ5IGFuZCB5ZWFyIn19&tab=results&run_query=true
topic: clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient
ch_version_introduced: '1.7'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 17
---

and JSON) and **binary** formats, which are further divided into **column\-oriented** (e.g. Native, Parquet, Arrow, etc.) and **row\-oriented** (e.g. RowBinary, Protobuf, Avro) formats. ClickHouse provides built\-in support for all these formats, enabling seamless [data loading](https://clickhouse.com/blog/supercharge-your-clickhouse-data-loads-part2) without third\-party tools.

In scenarios where a client continuously pushes data to the server and efficiency is important, the practical choices narrow significantly. ClickHouse’s [Native](https://clickhouse.com/docs/interfaces/formats/Native) format stands out as the most efficient option, as we will demonstrate later. This format is designed for high\-performance and low\-latency processing, offering high compression ratios for efficient network transport and minimal server\-side processing overhead. For example, as shown in the diagram, the columnar structure of the Native format closely matches the MergeTree table format, reducing the need for additional server\-side transformations.

To quantify these efficiencies and determine the fastest input formats for high\-throughput ingestion, we conducted the FastFormats benchmark. The next section provides a brief overview of its methodology and key mechanics.

## FastFormats benchmark [\#](/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#fastformats-benchmark)

To systematically evaluate the client\-side optimizations outlined earlier, we developed [FastFormats](https://github.com/ClickHouse/FastFormats/)—a dedicated benchmark designed to measure ingestion speed and hardware efficiency across different input formats, as well as the impact of pre\-sorting, compression, and batching.

FastFormats focuses on pure server\-side processing times, ensuring that only metrics taken after client\-side work is completed are used for comparison. The key principle is that server\-side hardware remains fixed, while client\-side resources can be scaled to speed up processing. This means that while client\-side processing times may vary, server\-side processing times remain consistent as long as the hardware stays the same.

The next subsections provide an overview of our benchmark mechanics, detailing how we ensured accurate performance comparisons based on this principle. After that, we’ll dive into the results.

### Dataset [\#](/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#dataset)

FastFormats uses the same web analytics dataset as [ClickBench](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickBench), ensuring it reflects real production data of a typical ClickHouse use case rather than synthetic test cases. This dataset, derived from actual web traffic recordings, is anonymized while preserving essential data distributions.

### Benchmark mechanics [\#](/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#benchmark-mechanics)

At its core, FastFormat runs a [nested loop](https://github.com/ClickHouse/FastFormats/blob/1705a83c301faf6657798b1077098c682202f98a/main.sh#L339) over the dataset split into batches:
