---
source: blog
url: https://sql.clickhouse.com/?query=c2VsZWN0ICogZnJvbSBzeXN0ZW0uZm9ybWF0cyBXSEVSRSBpc19pbnB1dCBPUkRFUiBCWSBuYW1lOw&chart=eyJ0eXBlIjoibGluZSIsImNvbmZpZyI6eyJ4YXhpcyI6InllYXIiLCJ5YXhpcyI6Ijk5dGhfYXZnX3RlbXAiLCJzZXJpZXMiOiJjb3VudHJ5IiwidGl0bGUiOiJUZW1wZXJhdHVyZSBieSBjb3VudHJ5IGFuZCB5ZWFyIn19&tab=results&run_query=true
topic: clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient
ch_version_introduced: '1.7'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 17
---

when preparing test data and [skip](https://github.com/ClickHouse/FastFormats/blob/1705a83c301faf6657798b1077098c682202f98a/main.sh#L138) the usual compression step before sending it to ClickHouse, as double compression provides little to no gain in ratio but unnecessarily increases CPU usage. ### Formats that are unsupported or redundant [\#](/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#formats-that-are-unsupported-or-redundant)

Not all formats are suitable for our dataset, target table, or purpose. For example, **LineAsString** only works with a single String field, **Npy** is designed for NumPy arrays, and **JSONAsObject** requires a single JSON field. Some formats, like **ProtobufSingle**, are meant for individual messages rather than batches and don’t fit our use case. These have been commented out in the benchmark’s test loop. Additionally, some formats are just synonyms—for instance, **NDJSON** and **JSONLines** are aliases for **JSONEachRow**, and **TSV** is a synonym for **TabSeparated**—so we included only one in each case to avoid redundancy.

### ClickHouse Native vs. HTTP interface [\#](/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#clickhouse-native-vs-http-interface)

Only the [HTTP interface](/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#http-interface) allows benchmarking of server\-side ingestion performance for any input format in isolation. The [native interface](/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#native-interface), in contrast, only accepts Native format.

For completeness, our benchmark includes an [inner loop](https://github.com/ClickHouse/FastFormats/blob/1705a83c301faf6657798b1077098c682202f98a/main.sh#L354) testing both the HTTP and native interfaces. However, results from our [online dashboard](https://fastformats.clickhouse.com/) are not directly comparable. We use `curl` to send pre\-sorted, fully formatted, and compressed data over HTTP, so server\-side ingestion metrics **exclude** client\-side work like sorting, formatting, and compression. This aligns with our goal: evaluating how different formats, compression, and sorting affect server\-side performance, **independent** of data preparation costs.

For the native interface, we use `clickhouse-client`, which (1\) applies block\-level network compression in a streaming fashion and (2\) [always](/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#native-interface) converts input to Native format before transmission. Consequently, server\-side ingestion metrics (1\) always reflect the server\-side processing of **only** the Native format and (2\) inherently **include** compression time.

### Hardware used for our test runs [\#](/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#hardware-used-for-our-test-runs)

We used a dedicated AWS EC2 `m6i.8xlarge` instance (32 CPU cores, 128 GiB RAM) as the client machine for FastFormats and a ClickHouse Cloud cluster with three compute nodes (each with 30 CPU cores and 120 GiB RAM) as the server system. Both the client and server machines were located in the same AWS region (`us-east-2`).

## Insert performance of common input formats [\#](/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#insert-performance-of-common-input-formats)

In the following sections, we highlight key findings from tests using

- ① a batch size of 10k rows per insert
- ② ClickHouse’s HTTP interface
