---
source: blog
url: https://gist.github.com/gingerwizard/5a9a87a39ba93b422d8640d811e269e9
topic: clickhouse-release-25-3
ch_version_introduced: '25.3'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

a pair of arrays exist in one array but not the other. We can work this out by computing the union of the array and then removing any elements that are contained in the intersection of the arrays:

```

```
1WITH
2    [1, 2, 3] AS a,
3    [2, 3, 4] AS b
4SELECT
5    arrayUnion(a, b) AS union,
6    arrayIntersect(a, b) AS intersect,
7    arrayFilter(x -> (NOT has(intersect, x)), union) AS unionButNotIntersect;
```

```

This works fine, but we thought it’d be cool if you could do this with a single function. Enter arraySymmetricDifference:

```

```
1WITH
2    [1, 2, 3] AS a,
3    [2, 3, 4] AS b
4SELECT
5    arrayUnion(a, b) AS union,
6    arrayIntersect(a, b) AS intersect,
7    arrayFilter(x -> (NOT has(intersect, x)), union) AS unionNotIntersect,
8    arraySymmetricDifference(a, b) AS symmetricDifference;
```

```

```

```
┌─union─────┬─intersect─┬─unionNotIntersect─┬─symmetricDifference─┐
│ [3,2,1,4] │ [2,3]     │ [1,4]             │ [1,4]               │
└───────────┴───────────┴───────────────────┴─────────────────────┘
```

```

## estimateCompressionRatio [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-25-03#estimatecompressionratio)

### Contributed by Tariq Almawash [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-25-03#contributed-by-tariq-almawash)

Another function added in this release is `estimateCompressionRatio`, which can assess the potential impact of applying different compression algorithms to a column.

> Remember from the [data compression section of Why is ClickHouse fast?](https://clickhouse.com/docs/concepts/why-clickhouse-is-so-fast#storage-layer-data-compression) that ClickHouse compresses data at the column level.

We can see how it works by applying compression algorithms to the `CounterID` column in the `hits` table on <play.clickhouse.com>:

```

```
1SELECT round(estimateCompressionRatio('NONE')(CounterID)) AS none,
2       round(estimateCompressionRatio('LZ4')(CounterID)) AS lz4,
3       round(estimateCompressionRatio('ZSTD')(CounterID)) AS zstd,
4       round(estimateCompressionRatio('ZSTD(3)')(CounterID)) AS zstd3,
5       round(estimateCompressionRatio('GCD')(CounterID)) AS gcd,
6       round(estimateCompressionRatio('Gorilla')(CounterID)) AS gorilla,
7       round(estimateCompressionRatio('Gorilla, ZSTD')(CounterID)) AS mix
8FROM hits
9FORMAT PrettyMonoBlock;
```

```

We can see the output of the query below:

```

```
┏━━━━━━┳━━━━━┳━━━━━━┳━━━━━━━┳━━━━━┳━━━━━━━━━┳━━━━━━┓
┃ none ┃ lz4 ┃ zstd ┃ zstd3 ┃ gcd ┃ gorilla ┃  mix ┃
┡━━━━━━╇━━━━━╇━━━━━━╇━━━━━━━╇━━━━━╇━━━━━━━━━╇━━━━━━┩
│    1 │ 248 │ 4974 │  5110 │   1 │      32 │ 6682 │
└──────┴─────┴──────┴───────┴─────┴─────────┴──────┘
```

```

The specialized codecs (`GCD` and `Gorilla`) have little impact. The more generic codecs, `LZ4` and, in particular, `ZSTD,` significantly reduce the space taken. We can also adjust the level of `ZSTD`, where a higher value means more compression. The higher the compression level, the longer it takes to compress a value, increasing the time for write operations.
