---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-users.md)#
topic: users-and-roles-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '213.180'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

xxd -r -p | sha1sum | tr -d '-' ``` The first line of the result is the password. The second line is the corresponding double SHA1 hash. ### TOTP Authentication Configuration[​](#totp-authentication-configuration "Direct link to TOTP Authentication Configuration")

Time\-Based One\-Time Password (TOTP) can be used to authenticate ClickHouse users by generating temporary access codes that are valid for a limited time.
This TOTP authentication method aligns with [RFC 6238](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6238) standards, making it compatible with popular TOTP applications like Google Authenticator, 1Password and similar tools.
It can be set up trough the `users.xml` configuration file in addition to password\-based authentication.
It's not yet supported in SQL\-driven Access Control.

To authenticate using TOTP, users must provide a primary password along with a one\-time password generated by their TOTP application via the `--one-time-password` command line option or concatenated to main password together with a '\+' character.
For example if the primary password is `some_password` and the generated TOTP code is `345123`, user may specify `--password some_password+345123` or `--password some_password --one-time-password 345123` when connecting to ClickHouse. If no password specified `clickhouse-client` will prompt for it interactively.

To enable TOTP authentication for a user, configure the `time_based_one_time_password` section in `users.xml`. This section defines the TOTP settings, such as secret, validity period, number of digits, and hash algorithm.

**Example**
