---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-users.md)#
topic: users-and-roles-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '213.180'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

password\-based methods in the list. At least one password\-based method is required when TOTP is enabled. **Example: `auth_methods` with TOTP** ``` <users> <my_user> <auth_methods> <a1> <password>my_password</password> </a1> <a2> <ldap> <server>ldap_server_1</server> </ldap> </a2> </auth_methods> <time_based_one_time_password> <secret>JBSWY3DPEHPK3PXP</secret> </time_based_one_time_password> </my_user> </users>

```

In this example, TOTP verification is applied to the password\-based method (`<password>`), while the LDAP method authenticates against the external server independently.


### access\_management[​](#access_management-user-setting "Direct link to access_management")


This setting enables or disables using of SQL\-driven [access control and account management](/docs/operations/access-rights#access-control-usage) for the user.


Possible values:


- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.


Default value: 0\.


### grants[​](#grants-user-setting "Direct link to grants")


This setting allows to grant any rights to selected user.
Each element of the list should be `GRANT` query without any grantees specified.


Example:



```
<user1>
    <grants>
        <query>GRANT SHOW ON *.*</query>
        <query>GRANT CREATE ON *.* WITH GRANT OPTION</query>
        <query>GRANT SELECT ON system.*</query>
    </grants>
</user1>

```

This setting can't be specified at the same time with
`dictionaries`, `access_management`, `named_collection_control`, `show_named_collections_secrets`
and `allow_databases` settings.


### user\_name/networks[​](#user-namenetworks "Direct link to user_name/networks")


List of networks from which the user can connect to the ClickHouse server.


Each element of the list can have one of the following forms:


- `<ip>` — IP address or network mask.


Examples: `213.180.204.3`, `10.0.0.1/8`, `10.0.0.1/255.255.255.0`, `2a02:6b8::3`, `2a02:6b8::3/64`, `2a02:6b8::3/ffff:ffff:ffff:ffff::`.
- `<host>` — Hostname.


Example: `example01.host.ru`.


To check access, a DNS query is performed, and all returned IP addresses are compared to the peer address.
- `<host_regexp>` — Regular expression for hostnames.


Example, `^example\d\d-\d\d-\d\.host\.ru$`


To check access, a [DNS PTR query](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Reverse_DNS_lookup) is performed for the peer address and then the specified regexp is applied. Then, another DNS query is performed for the results of the PTR query and all the received addresses are compared to the peer address. We strongly recommend that regexp ends with $.


All results of DNS requests are cached until the server restarts.


**Examples**


To open access for user from any network, specify:



```
<ip>::/0</ip>

```

NoteIt's insecure to open access from any network unless you have a firewall properly configured or the server is not directly connected to Internet.


To open access only from localhost, specify:



```
<ip>::1</ip>
<ip>127.0.0.1</ip>
