---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/newjson.md)#
topic: json-data-type-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '42.42'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

how we read paths sub\-columns from it. See section ["introspection functions"](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/newjson#introspection-functions) for details of functions used for inspecting the contents of a JSON column. ### Shared data structure in memory[​](#shared-data-structure-in-memory "Direct link to Shared data structure in memory")

In memory, shared data structure is just a sub\-column with type `Map(String, String)` that stores mapping from a flattened JSON path to a binary encoded value.
To extract a path subcolumn from it, we just iterate over all rows in this `Map` column and try to find the requested path and its values.

### Shared data structure in MergeTree parts[​](#shared-data-structure-in-merge-tree-parts "Direct link to Shared data structure in MergeTree parts")

In [MergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree) tables we store data in data parts that stores everything on disk (local or remote). And data on disk can be stored in a different way compared to memory.
Currently, there are 3 different shared data structure serializations in MergeTree data parts: `map`, `map_with_buckets`
and `advanced`.

The serialization version is controlled by MergeTree
settings [object\_shared\_data\_serialization\_version](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#object_shared_data_serialization_version)
and [object\_shared\_data\_serialization\_version\_for\_zero\_level\_parts](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#object_shared_data_serialization_version_for_zero_level_parts)
(zero level part is the part created during inserting data into the table, during merges parts have higher level).

Note: changing shared data structure serialization is supported only
for `v3` [object serialization version](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#object_serialization_version)

#### Map[​](#shared-data-map "Direct link to Map")

In `map` serialization version shared data is serialized as a single column with type `Map(String, String)` the same as it's stored in
memory. To read path sub\-column from this type of serialization ClickHouse reads the whole `Map` column and
extracts the requested path in memory.

This serialization is efficient for writing data and reading the whole `JSON` column, but it's not efficient for reading paths sub\-columns.

#### Map with buckets[​](#shared-data-map-with-buckets "Direct link to Map with buckets")

In `map_with_buckets` serialization version shared data is serialized as `N` columns ("buckets") with type `Map(String, String)`.
Each such bucket contains only subset of paths. To read path sub\-column from this type of serialization ClickHouse
reads the whole `Map` column from a single bucket and extracts the requested path in memory.

This serialization is less efficient for writing data and reading the whole `JSON` column, but it's more efficient for reading paths sub\-columns
because it reads data only from required buckets.
