---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/newjson.md)#
topic: json-data-type-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '42.42'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 26
---

bucket and extracts the requested path in memory. This serialization is less efficient for writing data and reading the whole `JSON` column, but it's more efficient for reading paths sub\-columns because it reads data only from required buckets.

Number of buckets `N` is controlled by MergeTree settings [object\_shared\_data\_buckets\_for\_compact\_part](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#object_shared_data_buckets_for_compact_part) (8 by default)
and [object\_shared\_data\_buckets\_for\_wide\_part](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#object_shared_data_buckets_for_wide_part) (32 by default).
The maximum allowed value for both settings is 256\.

#### Advanced[​](#shared-data-advanced "Direct link to Advanced")

In `advanced` serialization version shared data is serialized in a special data structure that maximizes the performance
of paths sub\-columns reading by storing some additional information that allows to read only the data of requested paths.
This serialization also supports buckets, so each bucket contains only sub\-set of paths.

This serialization is quite inefficient for writing data (so it's not recommended to use this serialization for zero\-level parts), reading the whole `JSON` column is slightly less efficient compared to `map` serialization, but it's very efficient for reading paths sub\-columns.

Note: because of storing some additional information inside the data structure, the disk storage size is higher with this serialization compared to
`map` and `map_with_buckets` serializations.

For more detailed overview of the new shared data serializations and implementation details read the [blog post](https://clickhouse.com/blog/json-data-type-gets-even-better).

## Controlling the number of dynamic paths inside JSON in MergeTree parts[​](#controlling-the-number-of-dynamic-paths "Direct link to Controlling the number of dynamic paths inside JSON in MergeTree parts")

The main way to set a limit on dynamic paths in JSON is to use `max_dynamic_paths` parameter inside the JSON type declaration.
But changing `max_dynamic_paths` for existing columns requires running `ALTER TABLE <table> MODIFY COLUMN <column> JSON(max_dynamic_paths=K)` that will start a background mutation that will rewrite all existing parts.
Such mutation can be really heavy and can affect the server performance until the mutation is finished. To avoid this, you can use these 3 settings that can help you to change the limit on dynamic paths in MergeTree tables for new data parts:
