---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwinium-s-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

of data: both from the amount of data stored per record, many to one relationship of records stored to journey conducted and long timeframes of lookback needed for investigations. **Have capabilities to analyse data in a complex way:**

- The nature of analysing fraudulent data requires complex interactive analysis. Having a feature rich, analytical capabilities stack makes a lot of difference; thus translating to reduced human costs. Having a database system that can respond in timeframes of 1 second or less, and at the same time provide a feature rich functional toolbox is a really compelling use case that modern database systems need to support.

## Why did Darwinium Choose ClickHouse? [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#why-did-darwinium-choose-clickhouse)

Darwinium assessed a few solutions before finally landing on ClickHouse as the choice of database engine. There are a few reasons that led to this decision.

The following sections use a hypothetical database table called events to denote an event in the digital journey of an end user. A row in this table represents all the attributes collected for a given interaction in the digital journey. Examples of attributes that an event can include are the device fingerprint, city from which the event was generated and so on.

## Simpler Data Pipelines [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#simpler-data-pipelines)

### Mutable Engine leads to a simpler data pipeline [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#mutable-engine-leads-to-a-simpler-data-pipeline)

Mutable database engines really simplify the data ingestion pipeline complexity. While immutable storage file systems like HDFS and the query processing engines that can execute on top of these immutable storage layers have their strengths, they do introduce additional implementation complexity when data pipelines need to be designed and implemented for mutable data processing patterns.
