---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwinium-s-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

and the query processing engines that can execute on top of these immutable storage layers have their strengths, they do introduce additional implementation complexity when data pipelines need to be designed and implemented for mutable data processing patterns.

Let us take the example of ingesting data within a time window of 5 seconds after it is generated in a messaging/ queuing system. We are talking about the need for a cyber security analyst/fraud analyst to see the details of all login attempts not later than 5 seconds after the event is generated. Using an immutable storage file system would mean: to “ingest” the data into a file starting with a “.” extension at the beginning, ingest the streaming data and close the file after the time window elapsed. Finally the file needs to be renamed to a valid file name so that it can be considered by the query processing engine. This operation has to be taken care of across all data partitions that the pipeline needs to maintain for a single table.

With ClickHouse, the data pipeline logic is simplified, and is only dealing with the “streaming” aspect of the write as opposed to all of these complexities. ClickHouse thus enables a simpler write design pattern just like any other new age data lake systems like Hudi etc. but with a more simplistic developer experience.

### Choice of table engine leads to simpler data pipelines [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#choice-of-table-engine-leads-to-simpler-data-pipelines)

To serve data summaries for an analyst who is interested in looking at aggregates, various implementation patterns are adopted in today's lakehouse architectures. The approach ClickHouse takes to solve for patterns like aggregates is simple yet powerful.
