---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwinium-s-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

[\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#choice-of-table-engine-leads-to-simpler-data-pipelines) To serve data summaries for an analyst who is interested in looking at aggregates, various implementation patterns are adopted in today's lakehouse architectures. The approach ClickHouse takes to solve for patterns like aggregates is simple yet powerful.

Let us take the need to summarise data at regular time windows of 5 minutes for each city. One can define a City Entity aggregation summary table using an AggregatingMergeTree Engine that can “listen” to changes in the “events” table and accumulate and summarise the City summaries for the time grain that the aggregation can be arrived at. This radically simplifies the data ingestion logic as we are able to do away with a need for a separate data pipeline for creating aggregated summaries (so that aggregates are served faster as opposed to a full table scan). The data pipeline could then focus on writing data to the “events” table only and a “CitySummary” table would be available for analysis as managed by ClickHouse.

## High Throughput Writes with Consistent Very Low CPU Core Readings [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#high-throughput-writes-with-consistent-very-low-cpu-core-readings)

A digital risk engine like Darwinium can process a few thousand writes per second per installation. On top of this, Darwinium had a wide table approach for each digital interaction. Darwinium collects a few thousand attributes per event that is captured in each interaction of a digital journey. A single ClickHouse server could easily handle a few thousand writes per second, with multiple data pipeline writers writing to a single ClickHouse server at any given instant. Moreover, the ClickHouse server side metrics showed a consistent and very low (\<5%) user space and system space core usage while the write operations alone were being executed. This leaves ample CPU allocation for query processing workloads.

ClickHouse was therefore very well suited for write\-heavy workloads commonly associated with the security and fraud domain use cases.

## Support for Complex Data Types [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#support-for-complex-data-types)
