---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwinium-s-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

were being executed. This leaves ample CPU allocation for query processing workloads. ClickHouse was therefore very well suited for write\-heavy workloads commonly associated with the security and fraud domain use cases. ## Support for Complex Data Types [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#support-for-complex-data-types)

Some of the data points collected per event by the Darwinium real time engine in the digital interaction required a map data structure representation. An example of such a map is the set of signals generated by the models that are executed in a given digital interaction. Darwinium analytic use cases require that an analyst needs capabilities to generate fine grained query filter expressions while analysing digital interactions. As an example, a query expression might involve looking at the distribution counts of the signals for a particular cohort of digital interaction types. If it were not a map data structure and the query ability on top of this map data structure thereof, we would need as many columns as the number of possible signals that could be generated (as each signal is specific to the model that was executed in that particular digital interaction.) Maps and arrays thus became a fundamental requirement for us to build upon for interactive analytics. ClickHouse is a pleasure to interact with, providing support for complex data types and the query expressions that can be executed using these data structures.

Fraud and Security, more than most industries is expected to experience a high churn of models, risk assessments and signals generated. These change dynamically from month to month to cater to business goals and evolving threats. A data storage solution needs to be able to deal with these changing configurations in a way that doesn’t require breaking queries, and adding to or overloading an existing schema. The ClickHouse Map and Array data types are ideal candidates for storing the state and outputs of these types of risk assessments. The richness of the associated functions on these data points provides the analytical power needed to interpret and monitor these important outputs, in a way that often negates the need for seperate downstream processing using more analytical oriented languages eg. Python.
