---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwinium-s-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

the associated functions on these data points provides the analytical power needed to interpret and monitor these important outputs, in a way that often negates the need for seperate downstream processing using more analytical oriented languages eg. Python.

The recent addition of JSON type support took this a step further when it came to the analytics requirements of Darwinium. Having a mechanism to have a “schema on read” pattern helps build a multi\-tenanted setup of the Darwinium analytics components, by using a JSON column type for some of the digital interaction events.

## Cost Aware Storage patterns [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#cost-aware-storage-patterns)

While the expectations from the digital systems of today are becoming more demanding in terms of latencies and query capabilities, so is the expectation that the cost to run is as small as possible. In particular, the security and fraud data analysis use cases align with the principle of diminishing interest. As the lifetime of an event in digital interaction grows older, so is the need for analysing it. Of course there would be the occasional need to analyse the entire year's worth of data but that probably will not be a continuous requirement.

ClickHouse supports the concept of tumbling data retention windows where “hot” data can be initially placed on a fast access medium like a local SSD, with the ability to subsequently move the data to a relatively slower but cheaper storage system like S3 (and is a matter of configuring the right data retention policy at the table level).

## Cloud Native [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#cloud-native)

No new age digital platform can claim to be a complete solution offering without having capabilities to deploy and run in at least one of the major cloud vendors. Darwinium is no exception to this thinking.

Besides being Cloud Native, there is the additional need to deploy Darwinium stack in an on\-premise or even a developers laptop. The fact that ClickHouse can be run from a low end laptop or an on\-premise cluster of nodes or on any of the myriad hardware configurations possible even on a single cloud provider like AWS enabled Darwinium deployment use cases in a big way.

Some of the other aspects that makes ClickHouse a cloud native offering for Darwinium use cases are:
