---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwinium-s-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

myriad hardware configurations possible even on a single cloud provider like AWS enabled Darwinium deployment use cases in a big way. Some of the other aspects that makes ClickHouse a cloud native offering for Darwinium use cases are:

- Support S3 (in case of AWS) as a disk type.
- Ability to configure a metadata path (and cacheable metadata path) shows the amount of design thinking that went into making ClickHouse Cloud Native.
- Mange how secrets like AWS credentials are configurable when using an S3 disk (AWS as an example cloud provider).
- The Darwinium team was able to install, configure and upgrade ClickHouse by using Kubernetes ecosystem tooling like Replicated.

The ClickHouse cloud service offering that is shortly being released as a turn key solution takes this a step further. All the complexities of managing a ClickHouse instance are greatly simplified; becoming as simple as configuring the write or read API endpoint and then simply to start using it.

## Distributed \& Highly Available [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#distributed--highly-available)

Fraud and security use cases generate information that essentially cannot be stored on a single node. Also it would be more advantageous to process a query in the most parallel way possible. ClickHouse can utilise all of the cores available on a single node that it is running on to process a query. In addition the data for a single table can be sharded across multiple nodes. This helps Darwinium use cases to process as many queries as possible using the maximum possible compute power available, by using all cores in a given cluster of nodes.

Replicating the data as the data gets ingested results in providing a higher level uptime for Darwinium customers. This aspect significantly reduced the risk of an AWS node inadvertently getting shut down and thus losing all of the data hosted on its local SSD. Replication thus allowed for a lower risk on a cloud construct as well as providing for distributing the query processing workloads.

## Rich Function Catalogue [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#rich-function-catalogue)
