---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwinium-s-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

and thus losing all of the data hosted on its local SSD. Replication thus allowed for a lower risk on a cloud construct as well as providing for distributing the query processing workloads. ## Rich Function Catalogue [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#rich-function-catalogue)

While having a distributed compute paradigm is advantageous, having a rich number of functions further augments these advantages, and drastically reduces the time taken by a security or a fraud analyst to arrive at analytical conclusions. The catalogue of functions that are available for collections like Arrays and Maps, User defined functions and also the concept of lambdas, offer new ways to analyse data on cyber security and fraud data sets.

## SQL as a Simpler Interface [\#](/blog/fast-feature-rich-and-mutable-clickhouse-powers-darwiniums-security-and-fraud-analytics-use-cases#sql-as-a-simpler-interface)

While there are database/search systems that can index data, having a system that provides SQL as the interface to analyse and query data makes a lot of difference. Darwinium allows analysts to build custom data analysis views and charts using a jupyter notebook experience in addition to forensics dashboards and interactive analyses screens. SQL, which is one of the well known and proven “languages”, is thus a compelling querying interface to enable such custom data analysis use cases.

Here is a pictorial representation of the latencies of queries run on a 40M entries dataset on a single node hosting a very wide table of approximately 3k columns. Here are some comments on the chart below:
