---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/best-practices/skipping-indexes.md)#
topic: understanding-clickhouse-data-skipping-indexes-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.079'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

# Understanding ClickHouse data skipping indexes \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Performance and optimizations](/docs/operations/overview)- Data skipping indexes
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/best-practices/skipping-indexes.md)# Understanding ClickHouse data skipping indexes

## Introduction[​](#introduction "Direct link to Introduction")

Many factors affect ClickHouse query performance. The critical element in most scenarios is whether ClickHouse can use the primary key when evaluating the query WHERE clause condition. Accordingly, selecting a primary key that applies to the most common query patterns is essential for effective table design.

Nevertheless, no matter how carefully tuned the primary key, there will inevitably be query use cases that can not efficiently use it. Users commonly rely on ClickHouse for time series type data, but they often wish to analyze that same data according to other business dimensions, such as customer id, website URL, or product number. In that case, query performance can be considerably worse because a full scan of each column value may be required to apply the WHERE clause condition. While ClickHouse is still relatively fast in those circumstances, evaluating millions or billions of individual values will cause "non\-indexed" queries to execute much more slowly than those based on the primary key.

In a traditional relational database, one approach to this problem is to attach one or more "secondary" indexes to a table. This is a b\-tree structure that permits the database to find all matching rows on disk in O(log(n)) time instead of O(n) time (a table scan), where n is the number of rows. However, this type of secondary index won't work for ClickHouse (or other column\-oriented databases) because there are no individual rows on the disk to add to the index.

Instead, ClickHouse provides a different type of index, which in specific circumstances can significantly improve query speed. These structures are labeled "Skip" indexes because they enable ClickHouse to skip reading significant chunks of data that are guaranteed to have no matching values.

## Basic operation[​](#basic-operation "Direct link to Basic operation")

You can only employ Data Skipping Indexes on the MergeTree family of tables. Each data skipping has four primary arguments:
