---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/best-practices/skipping-indexes.md)#
topic: understanding-clickhouse-data-skipping-indexes-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.079'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

of data that are guaranteed to have no matching values. ## Basic operation[​](#basic-operation "Direct link to Basic operation") You can only employ Data Skipping Indexes on the MergeTree family of tables. Each data skipping has four primary arguments:

- Index name. The index name is used to create the index file in each partition. Also, it is required as a parameter when dropping or materializing the index.
- Index expression. The index expression is used to calculate the set of values stored in the index. It can be a combination of columns, simple operators, and/or a subset of functions determined by the index type.
- TYPE. The type of index controls the calculation that determines if it is possible to skip reading and evaluating each index block.
- GRANULARITY. Each indexed block consists of GRANULARITY granules. For example, if the granularity of the primary table index is 8192 rows, and the index granularity is 4, each indexed "block" will be 32768 rows.

When a user creates a data skipping index, there will be two additional files in each data part directory for the table.

- `skp_idx_{index_name}.idx`, which contains the ordered expression values
- `skp_idx_{index_name}.mrk2`, which contains the corresponding offsets into the associated data column files.

If some portion of the WHERE clause filtering condition matches the skip index expression when executing a query and reading the relevant column files, ClickHouse will use the index file data to determine whether each relevant block of data must be processed or can be bypassed (assuming that the block hasn't already been excluded by applying the primary key). To use a very simplified example, consider the following table loaded with predictable data.

```
CREATE TABLE skip_table
(
  my_key UInt64,
  my_value UInt64
)
ENGINE MergeTree primary key my_key
SETTINGS index_granularity=8192;

INSERT INTO skip_table SELECT number, intDiv(number,4096) FROM numbers(100000000);

```

When executing a simple query that doesn't use the primary key, all 100 million entries in the `my_value`
column are scanned:

```
SELECT * FROM skip_table WHERE my_value IN (125, 700)

┌─my_key─┬─my_value─┐
│ 512000 │      125 │
│ 512001 │      125 │
│    ... |      ... |
└────────┴──────────┘

8192 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.079 sec. Processed 100.00 million rows, 800.10 MB (1.26 billion rows/s., 10.10 GB/s.

```

Now add a very basic skip index:
