---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/best-practices/skipping-indexes.md)#
topic: understanding-clickhouse-data-skipping-indexes-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.079'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

case of skip indexes because the only disadvantage is reading a few unnecessary blocks. However, the potential for false positives does mean that the indexed expression should be expected to be true, otherwise valid data may be skipped.

Because Bloom filters can more efficiently handle testing for a large number of discrete values, they can be appropriate for conditional expressions that produce more values to test. In particular, a Bloom filter index can be applied to arrays, where every value of the array is tested, and to maps, by converting either the keys or values to an array using the mapKeys or mapValues function.

There are three Data Skipping Index types based on Bloom filters:

- The basic **bloom\_filter** which takes a single optional parameter of the allowed "false positive" rate between 0 and 1 (if unspecified, .025 is used).
- The specialized **tokenbf\_v1** *(Deprecated)*). It takes three parameters, all related to tuning the bloom filter used: (1\) the size of the filter in bytes (larger filters have fewer false positives, at some cost in storage), (2\) number of hash functions applied (again, more hash filters reduce false positives), and (3\) the seed for the bloom filter hash functions. See the calculator [here](https://hur.st/bloomfilter/) for more detail on how these parameters affect bloom filter functionality.
This index works only with String, FixedString, and Map datatypes. The input expression is split into character sequences separated by non\-alphanumeric characters. For example, a column value of `This is a candidate for a "full text" search` will contain the tokens `This` `is` `a` `candidate` `for` `full` `text` `search`. It is intended for use in LIKE, EQUALS, IN, hasToken() and similar searches for words and other values within longer strings. For example, one possible use might be searching for a small number of class names or line numbers in a column of free form application log lines.
- The specialized **ngrambf\_v1** *(Deprecated)*. This index functions the same as the token index. It takes one additional parameter before the Bloom filter settings, the size of the ngrams to index. An ngram is a character string of length `n` of any characters, so the string `A short string` with an ngram size of 4 would be indexed as:
