---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/best-practices/skipping-indexes.md)#
topic: understanding-clickhouse-data-skipping-indexes-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.079'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

Bloom filter settings, the size of the ngrams to index. An ngram is a character string of length `n` of any characters, so the string `A short string` with an ngram size of 4 would be indexed as:

```
'A sh', ' sho', 'shor', 'hort', 'ort ', 'rt s', 't st', ' str', 'stri', 'trin', 'ring'

```

This index can also be useful for text searches, particularly languages without word breaks, such as Chinese.

> For full\-text search workloads, the dedicated **text index** (see [Text index for full\-text search](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/textindexes)) is recommended over the deprecated *tokenbf\_v1* or *ngrambf\_v1* indexes.
> The text index provides a true inverted index with better search performance, more predictable behavior, and greater flexibility and performance compared with token\-based Bloom filter indexes.

## Skip index functions[​](#skip-index-functions "Direct link to Skip index functions")

The core purpose of data\-skipping indexes is to limit the amount of data analyzed by popular queries. Given the analytic nature of ClickHouse data, the pattern of those queries in most cases includes functional expressions. Accordingly, skip indexes must interact correctly with common functions to be efficient. This can happen either when:

- data is inserted and the index is defined as a functional expression (with the result of the expression stored in the index files), or
- the query is processed and the expression is applied to the stored index values to determine whether to exclude the block.

Each type of skip index works on a subset of available ClickHouse functions appropriate to the index implementation listed
[here](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#functions-support). In general, set indexes and Bloom filter based indexes (another type of set index) are both unordered and therefore don't work with ranges. In contrast, minmax indexes work particularly well with ranges since determining whether ranges intersect is very fast. The efficacy of partial match functions LIKE, startsWith, endsWith, and hasToken depend on the index type used, the index expression, and the particular shape of the data.

## Skip index settings[​](#skip-index-settings "Direct link to Skip index settings")

There are two available settings that apply to skip indexes.
