---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/best-practices/skipping-indexes.md)#
topic: understanding-clickhouse-data-skipping-indexes-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.079'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

and only those five rows would be read from disk. The exact opposite is true for a ClickHouse data skipping index. All 32768 values in the `visitor_id` column will be tested regardless of the type of skip index.

Accordingly, the natural impulse to try to speed up ClickHouse queries by simply adding an index to key
columns is often incorrect. This advanced functionality should only be used after investigating other alternatives, such as modifying the primary key (see [How to Pick a Primary Key](/docs/guides/best-practices/sparse-primary-indexes)), using projections, or using materialized views. Even when a data skipping index is appropriate, careful tuning both the index and the table
will often be necessary.

In most cases a useful skip index requires a strong correlation between the primary key and the targeted, non\-primary column/expression.
If there is no correlation (as in the above diagram), the chances of the filtering condition being met by at least one of the rows in
the block of several thousand values is high and few blocks will be skipped. In contrast, if a range of values for the primary key (like time of
day) is strongly associated with the values in the potential index column (such as television viewer ages), then a minmax type of index
is likely to be beneficial. Note that it may be possible to increase this correlation when inserting data, either by including additional
columns in the sorting/ORDER BY key, or batching inserts in a way that values associated with the primary key are grouped on insert. For
example, all of the events for a particular site\_id could be grouped and inserted together by the ingest process, even if the primary key
is a timestamp containing events from a large number of sites. This will result in many granules that contains only a few site ids, so many
blocks could be skipped when searching by a specific site\_id value.
