---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/best-practices/skipping-indexes.md)#
topic: understanding-clickhouse-data-skipping-indexes-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.079'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

key is a timestamp containing events from a large number of sites. This will result in many granules that contains only a few site ids, so many blocks could be skipped when searching by a specific site\_id value.

Another good candidate for a skip index is for high cardinality expressions where any one value is relatively sparse in the data. One example
might be an observability platform that tracks error codes in API requests. Certain error codes, while rare in the data, might be particularly
important for searches. A set skip index on the error\_code column would allow bypassing the vast majority of blocks that don't contain
errors and therefore significantly improve error focused queries.

Finally, the key best practice is to test, test, test. Again, unlike b\-tree secondary indexes or inverted indexes for searching documents,
data skipping index behavior isn't easily predictable. Adding them to a table incurs a meaningful cost both on data ingest and on queries
that for any number of reasons don't benefit from the index. They should always be tested on real world type of data, and testing should
include variations of the type, granularity size and other parameters. Testing will often reveal patterns and pitfalls that aren't obvious from
thought experiments alone.

## Related docs[​](#related-docs "Direct link to Related docs")

- [Best practices guide](/docs/best-practices/use-data-skipping-indices-where-appropriate)
- [Data skipping index examples](/docs/optimize/skipping-indexes/examples)
- [Manipulating data skipping indices](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/skipping-index)
- [System table information](/docs/operations/system-tables/data_skipping_indices)
[PreviousPartitioning key](/docs/optimize/partitioning-key)[NextData skipping indexes \- examples](/docs/optimize/skipping-indexes/examples)- [Introduction](#introduction)- [Basic operation](#basic-operation)- [Skip index types](#skip-index-types)
	- [minmax](#minmax)- [set](#set)- [text](#text)- [Bloom filter types](#bloom-filter-types)- [Skip index functions](#skip-index-functions)- [Skip index settings](#skip-index-settings)- [Skip index best practices](#skip-best-practices)- [Related docs](#related-docs)
Was this page helpful?
