---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-february-2023-a-sample-of-what-s-happening-in-the-community
ch_version_introduced: '3.617108988953329'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

***How do I join?*** Register [here](https://clickhouse.com/company/events/2023-03-08-clickhouse-workshop). ## ClickHouse v23\.1 [\#](/blog/newsletter_2023_february#clickhouse-v231) As usual, the January release did not disappoint. A great start to the new year with a number of important features. Have a look at the [blog post](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-release-23-01).

1. **Inverted Full Text Indices** \- In this release, we add experimental support for Inverted Indices in ClickHouse as a data\-skipping index. While this doesn't make ClickHouse a fully\-fledged search engine, it introduces some interesting possibilities for improving the performance of specific token\-based queries.
2. **Parameterized Views** \- Anyone who writes a lot of SQL learns to appreciate views quickly. They allow users to abstract away complex queries and expose them with table syntax. Until now, users could only create static views. With the 23\.1 release of ClickHouse, we can create dynamic views based on parameters passed at query time.
3. **Query Results Cache** \- To achieve maximum performance, analytical databases optimize every step of their internal data storage and processing pipeline. But the best kind of work performed by a database is work that is not done at all! In 23\.1, we introduce a new member to the ClickHouse family of Caches, the Query Result Cache!

It is worth spending time with the [recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zYSZXBnTMSE) of the live presentation and please upgrade unless you want to stay on a [Long Term Support (LTS) release](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/faq/operations/production/#how-to-choose-between-clickhouse-releases).

## Query of the Month \- “New Context Forms From Old” [\#](/blog/newsletter_2023_february#query-of-the-month---new-context-forms-from-old)

It may be hard to believe, but sometimes it's possible to have so much data that it's impractical to query in the required response time… even when using ClickHouse. So what are your options once you’ve overcome the shock of a query response time where you had time to blink!?!?? Well, this is when we turn to the ClickHouse toolbox and pull out **SAMPLE BY**.

Often we don’t need precise answers, especially if your source data isn’t precise and approximate answers are sufficient. At PB or even TB scale, some businesses can accept some imprecision in exchange for a significant reduction in cost. Alternatively, strict latency requirements may be more important than complete accuracy. This is the spirit of SAMPLE BY.
