---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/language\-clients/javascript\#keep\-alive\-nodejs\-only](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/language-clients/javascript#keep-alive-nodejs-only
topic: client-timeouts-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

there is an option called `custom_settings` ([this](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-java/blob/main/clickhouse-client/src/main/java/com/clickhouse/client/config/ClickHouseClientOption.java#L34C22-L34C37) ) that will apply custom ch query settings for every query before the actual connection is created. The correct JDBC connection string will look like this: ``` jdbc:clickhouse://"${clickhouse.host}"/"${clickhouse.db}"?ssl=true&socket_timeout=3600000&socket_keepalive=true&custom_settings=send_progress_in_http_headers=1 ``` ### Description

- `http_send_timeout & send_timeout`: The timeout for sending data to the socket. If the server takes longer than this value to send data, the connection will be terminated (i.e., when the server pushes data to the client, and the client is not reading that for some reason).
- `http_receive_timeout & receive_timeout:` The timeout for receiving data from the socket. If the server takes longer than this value to receive the entire request from the client, the connection will be terminated. This setting ensures that the server is not kept waiting indefinitely for slow or unresponsive clients (i.e., the server tries to get some data from the client, but the client does not send anything).
- `http_connection_timeout & connect_timeout`: Defines how long ClickHouse should wait when it connects to another server. If the connection cannot be established within this time frame, it will be terminated. This does not impact the clients which connect to ClickHouse using HTTP (it only matters when ClickHouse works as a TCP/HTTP client).
- `keep_alive_timeout`: This is for ‘Connection: keep\-alive’ in HTTP 1\.1, only for HTTP. It defines how long ClickHouse can wait for the next request in the same connection to arrive after serving the previous one. It does not lead to any SOCKET\_TIMEOUT exception, just closes the socket if the client doesn’t start a new request after that time.

💡 In 23\.12 \`keep\_alive\_timeout\` was introduced default of 10 seconds. Before 23\.12 default \`keep\_alive\_timeout\` configured on clickhouse side was 3\. For 23\.8 \`keep\_alive\_timeout\` is not present as a server setting in \`system.server\_settings\` table but if is in the config.xml.- `sync_request_timeout` – timeout for server ping. Defaults to 5 seconds.
