---
source: blog
url: https://ghe.clickhouse.tech/
topic: git-commits-and-our-community
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

repository, this generates files of the following sizes in a few minutes as of November 8th, 2022: - `commits.tsv` \- 7\.8M \- 266,051 rows - `file_changes.tsv` \- 53M \- 266,051 rows - `line_changes.tsv` \- 2\.7G \- 7,535,157 rows

You can generate this data for any repository on Github (see linux [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/github#downloading-and-inserting-the-data)) and analyze your own projects using the questions below for inspiration. If you don’t have time to generate the data yourself, we’ve loaded our own data into [play.clickhouse.com](https://sql.clickhouse.com?query_id=DCQPNPAIMAQXRLHYURLKVJ) (note the database is `git_clickhouse`) so our community can play with the example queries.

## Questions answered [\#](/blog/clickhouse-git-community-commits#questions-answered)

The tool handily proposes some possible questions for you to answer. We’ve answered these, in addition to some others of interest, for the ClickHouse repository. You can find the complete list of questions and their current answers [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/github). Please share your own insights for both ClickHouse and other repositories, and feel free to contribute queries and improvements!

Note that some of the questions are quite broad and open to interpretation, so we welcome alternatives. The data is also intended for high\-level analytical purposes. It can be imprecise for a few reasons (e.g., dirty and broken commit histories), making some more exact queries particularly challenging. This shouldn’t impact any high\-level analysis, however.

In future posts, we’ll dig into some specific queries and highlight a range of ClickHouse functionality. For now, we’d like to present the opportunity to solve one of the tools suggested questions for which the current answer feels like it could be improved….

## A Challenge [\#](/blog/clickhouse-git-community-commits#a-challenge)

The most challenging query posed by the tool is probably the reconstruction of the git blame command. As a reminder, `git blame` shows the current file, annotating each line in the given file with information from the revision that last modified the line. For example,
