---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://clickhouse.tech/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition/#alter_freeze-partition
topic: production-cluster-configuration-guide-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

the servers inside the cluster or can be individualized per server. If you choose to use one substitutions file per cluster, not per node, you will also need to generate the file with macros, if macros are used.

This way you have full flexibility; you’re not limited to the settings described in the template. You can change any settings per server or data center just by assigning files with some settings to that server or server group. It becomes easy to navigate, edit, and assign files.

### Other Configuration Recommendations

Other configurations that should be evaluated:

- in config.xml: Determines which IP addresses and ports the ClickHouse servers listen for incoming communications.
- \<max\_memory\_..\> and \<max\_bytes\_before\_external\_…\> in users.xml. These are part of the profile .
- \<max\_execution\_time\>
- \<log\_queries\>

The following extra debug logs should be considered:

- part\_log
- text\_log

### Understanding The Configuration

ClickHouse configuration stores most of its information in two files:

- config.xml: Stores [Server configuration parameters](https://clickhouse.yandex/docs/en/operations/server_settings/)
. They are server wide, some are hierarchical , and most of them can’t be changed in runtime. The list of settings to apply without a restart changes from version to version. Some settings can be verified using system tables, for example:
	- macros (system.macros)
	- remote\_servers (system.clusters)
- users.xml: Configure users, and user level / session level [settings](https://clickhouse.yandex/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/)
.
	- Each user can change these during their session by:
		- Using parameter in http query
		- By using parameter for clickhouse\-client
		- Sending query like set allow\_experimental\_data\_skipping\_indices\=1\.
	- Those settings and their current values are visible in system.settings. You can make some settings global by editing default profile in users.xml, which does not need restart.
	- You can forbid users to change their settings by using readonly\=2 for that user, or using [setting constraints](https://clickhouse.yandex/docs/en/operations/settings/constraints_on_settings/)
	.
	- Changes in users.xml are applied w/o restart.

For both config.xml and users.xml, it’s preferable to put adjustments in the config.d and users.d subfolders instead of editing config.xml and users.xml directly.

You can check if the config file was reread by checking /var/lib/clickhouse/preprocessed\_configs/ folder.

# 4 \- Hardware Requirements

Hardware Requirements### ClickHouse®

ClickHouse will use all available hardware to maximize performance. So the more hardware \- the better. As of this publication, the hardware requirements are:
