---
source: blog
url: https://discover.clickhouse.com/newsletter.html?utm_medium=email&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_campaign=newsletter
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-april-2023-lightweight-deletes
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

Lightweight deletes go beyond incremental models...support for processing [Kafka tombstone messages](https://medium.com/@damienthomlutz/deleting-records-in-kafka-aka-tombstones-651114655a16) anyone? We'd love to hear how Lightweight deletes have changed your workflows! ## Reading List [\#](/blog/newsletter_2023_april#reading-list) Some of our favorite reads that you may have missed include:

1. [A Deep Dive into Apache Parquet with ClickHouse \- Part 1](https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing) \- Since its release in 2013 as a columnar storage for Hadoop, Parquet has become almost ubiquitous as a file interchange format that offers efficient storage and retrieval. In this blog series, we explore how ClickHouse can be used to read and write this format before diving into the Parquet in more detail. For more experienced Parquet users, we also discuss some optimizations that users can make when writing Parquet files using ClickHouse to maximize compression, as well as some recent developments to optimize read performance using parallelization.
2. [My Journey as a Serial Startup Product Manager](https://clickhouse.com/blog/my-journey-as-a-serial-startup-product-manager) \- In this post our VP of Product, Tanya Bragin, shares the story of her career. In her own words, “I often get questions about how I decided to become a product manager at startups, and what I learned over the years. The truth is, I had no such plan in life \- I fell into the product management career somewhat by accident. But I have learned a few things along the way, and I will attempt to summarize the highlights in this blog.”
3. [Speeding up LZ4 in ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/lz4-compression-in-clickhouse) \- This blog was originally posted in 2019\. We edited and reposted in tribute to the authors of the LZ family of algorithms: Abraham Lempel and Jacob Ziv, who recently passed away. It can be tempting to think that every new feature is novel. That every new release is set to change the market. However, we \-\- as an industry \-\- stand on the shoulder of giants. Jacob's contributions to information theory (beyond compression algorithms) are, and remain, an inspiration to generations of practitioners and researchers.
4. [Building Real\-time Analytics Apps with ClickHouse and Hex](https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-real-time-applications-with-clickhouse-and-hex-notebook-keeper-engine) \- As the world’s fastest analytical database, we are always looking for tools that help our users quickly and easily realize their dream of building applications on top of ClickHouse. So when Hex.tech announced the availability of ClickHouse as a data source, we were excited to see the potential for building real\-time applications. In this blog post, we explore how we collected data and built a simple proof of concept for our application “ClickHub” using Hex.tech.
