---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://altinity.com/blog/clickhouse-materialized-views-illuminated-part-1
topic: clickhouse-materialized-views-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.001'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

target SELECT ... FROM source WHERE cond < ... ``` This way you have full control backfilling process (you can backfill in smaller parts to avoid timeouts, do some cross\-checks / integrity\-checks, change some settings, etc.) ## FAQ

### Q. Can I attach MATERIALIZED VIEW to the VIEW, or engine\=Merge, or engine\=MySQL, etc.?

Since MATERIALIZED VIEWs are updated on every INSERT to the underlying table and you can not insert anything to the usual VIEW, the materialized view update will never be triggered.

Normally, you should build MATERIALIZED VIEWs on the top of the table with the MergeTree engine family.

### Q. I’ve created a materialized error with some error, and since it’s reading from Kafka, I don’t understand where the error is

Look into system.query\_views\_log table or server logs, or system.text\_log table. Also, see the next question.

### Q. How to debug misbehaving MATERIALIZED VIEW?

You can also attach the same MV to a dummy table with engine\=Null and do manual inserts to debug the behavior. In a similar way (as the Materialized view often contains some pieces of the application’s business logic), you can create tests for your schema.

#### Warning

Always test MATERIALIZED VIEWs first on staging or testing environmentsPossible test scenario:

1. create a copy of the original table `CREATE TABLE src_copy ... AS src`
2. create MV on that copy `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW ... AS SELECT ... FROM src_copy`
3. check if inserts to src\_copy work properly, and mv is properly filled. `INSERT INTO src_copy SELECT * FROM src LIMIT 100`
4. cleanup the temp stuff and recreate MV on real table.

### Q. Can I use subqueries / joins in MV?

It is possible but it is **a very bad idea** for most of the use cases\*\*.\*\*

So it will most probably work not as you expect and will hit insert performance significantly.
