---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://altinity.com/blog/clickhouse-materialized-views-illuminated-part-1
topic: clickhouse-materialized-views-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.001'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

dbname.`.inner.mvname` ON CLUSTER cluster_name add column tokens AggregateFunction(uniq, UInt64); -- othewise just alter the target table used in `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW ...` `TO ...` clause ``` 4. attach MV back using the query you create at p. 1\.

```
ATTACH MATERIALIZED VIEW dbname.mvname ON CLUSTER cluster_name
(
    /* ... */
    `tokens` AggregateFunction(uniq, UInt64)
)
ENGINE = ReplicatedAggregatingMergeTree(...)
ORDER BY ...
AS
SELECT
    /* ... */
    uniqState(rand64()) as tokens
FROM /* ... */
GROUP BY /* ... */

```

As you can see that operation is NOT atomic, so the safe way is to stop data ingestion during that procedure.

If you have version 19\.16\.13 or newer you can change the order of step 2 and 3 making the period when MV is detached and not working shorter (related issue <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/7878>
).

See also:

- <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/1226>
- <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/7533>
# 1 \- Idempotent inserts into a materialized view

How to make idempotent inserts into a materialized view".## Why inserts into materialized views are not idempotent?

ClickHouse® still does not have transactions. They were to be implemented around 2022Q2 but still not in the roadmap.

Because of ClickHouse materialized view is a trigger. And an insert into a table and an insert into a subordinate materialized view it’s two different inserts so they are not atomic altogether.

And insert into a materialized view may fail after the successful insert into the table. In case of any failure a client gets the error about failed insertion.
You may enable insert\_deduplication (it’s enabled by default for Replicated engines) and repeat the insert with an idea to archive idempotate insertion,
and insertion will be skipped into the source table because of deduplication but it will be skipped for materialized view as well because
by default materialized view inherits deduplication from the source table.
It’s controlled by a parameter `deduplicate_blocks_in_dependent_materialized_views` [https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/\#settings\-deduplicate\-blocks\-in\-dependent\-materialized\-views](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/#settings-deduplicate-blocks-in-dependent-materialized-views)

If your materialized view is wide enough and always has enough data for consistent deduplication then you can enable `deduplicate_blocks_in_dependent_materialized_views`.
Or you may add information for deduplication (some unique information / insert identifier).

### Example 1\. Inconsistency with deduplicate\_blocks\_in\_dependent\_materialized\_views 0
