---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/altinity\-kb\-setup\-and\-maintenance/altinity\-kb\-replication\-queue/](https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-replication-queue/
topic: clickhouse-replication-problems-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

# ClickHouse® Replication problems \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Setup \& maintenance](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/)
2. Replication problems
# ClickHouse® Replication problems

Finding and troubleshooting problems in the `replication_queue`# Common problems \& solutions

- If the replication queue does not have any Exceptions only postponed reasons without exceptions just leave ClickHouse® do Merges/Mutations and it will eventually catch up and reduce the number of tasks in `replication_queue`. Number of concurrent merges and fetches can be tuned but if it is done without an analysis of your workload then you may end up in a worse situation. If Delay in queue is going up actions may be needed:
- First simplest approach:
try to `SYSTEM RESTART REPLICA db.table` (This will DETACH/ATTACH table internally)

# How to check for replication problems

1. Check `system.replicas` first, cluster\-wide. It allows to check if the problem is local to some replica or global, and allows to see the exception.
allows to answer the following questions:

	- Are there any ReadOnly replicas?
	- Is there the connection to zookeeper active?
	- Is there the exception during table init? (`Code: 999. Coordination::Exception: Transaction failed (No node): Op #1`)
2. Check `system.replication_queue`.

	- How many tasks there / are they moving / are there some very old tasks there? (check `created_time` column, if tasks are 24h old, it is a sign of a problem):
	- You can use this qkb article query: [https://kb.altinity.com/altinity\-kb\-setup\-and\-maintenance/altinity\-kb\-replication\-queue/](https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-replication-queue/)
	- Check if there are tasks with a high number of `num_tries` or `num_postponed` and `postponed_reason` this is a sign of stuck tasks.
	- Check the problematic parts affecting the stuck tasks. You can use columns `new_part_name` or `parts_to_merge`
	- Check which type is the task. If it is `MUTATE_PART` then it is a mutation task. If it is `MERGE_PARTS` then it is a merge task. These tasks can be deleted from the replication queue but `GET_PARTS` should not be deleted.
3. Check `system.errors`
4. Check `system.mutations`:
