---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: 10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

an insight. They need visuals and aggregates to help them make sense of this data which almost always requires some very heavy business logic that has to be performed which involves a lot of querying and data visualization.

All things considered, Instabug’s backend is very large scale. To give you a quick glimpse, at Instabug we run multiple kubernetes clusters in a microservice oriented architecture consisting of dozens of microservices and datastores. Our APIs average approximately 2 million requests per minute and terabytes of data going in and out of our services daily.

## **Where did we use ClickHouse?** [\#](/blog/10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm#where-did-we-use-clickhouse)

In most of our products we follow a pattern where MySQL is the primary datastore which serves as the single source of truth that serves all writes and some light reads (mainly point queries) and we index data into Elasticsearch clusters which we use to serve more complex reads, such as filtering, sorting and aggregating data.

When building APM, we realized that this would be our largest scale product in terms of the amount of data it would have. To give you a quick overview of the data scale of APM, we store approximately 3 billion events (rows) per day at a rate of approximately 2 million events per minute. We also have to serve some pretty complex data visualizations that depend heavily on filtering very large amounts of data and calculating complex aggregations in a reasonably fast time frame for the sake of the user experience.

The following are some examples of the data visualizations we provide in our APM dashboard for our users:

- In this data visualization, users are able to get a holistic view of all their network groups to detect problematic groups for further inspection. In such a visualization, we have to calculate aggregate data from the occurrences of each group, such as count, failure rates, response time percentiles, apdex scores, etc. This data visualization can be filtered and sorted in both directions by any column.
