---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: 10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

we have to go through for recent date filters ranges, etc. which made Elasticsearch continue for a little longer… but we realized that it would not scale and we needed to find another solution. ## **Enter ClickHouse** [\#](/blog/10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm#enter-clickhouse)

We experimented with a few datastores to find an Elasticsearch alternative for APM and we found out about ClickHouse. We started experimenting with ClickHouse, getting to know its features, we wrote our Elasticsearch queries in ClickHouse and started performance testing activities and we realized that ClickHouse is actually performing way better for both reads and writes and a decision was made to start migrating to ClickHouse.

At the beginning, we couldn’t just freeze work on the product itself to migrate to a new datastore.We also didn’t have experience with operating ClickHouse, so we didn’t want to roll it out to production in one go. Therefore, we had to come up with ways to make our code and infrastructure versatile enough to allow for an incremental rollout and experimentation. We refactored the code to abstract dealing with the datastore, so the code would no longer be coupled with whatever datastore we are using, now it can read and write to different datastores based on some dynamically provided configuration which allows us to:

- Be able to write all new data to both ClickHouse and Elasticsearch to minimize migration effort.
- Be able to have specific users write/read data from ClickHouse while all other users are writing/reading data from Elasticsearch, which was crucial to gain confidence via an incremental rollout.
- Be able to still add new features for both Elasticsearch and ClickHouse and have them available for the experiment group and the main production whenever we wish.

It took us around 5 months to completely migrate to ClickHouse, so having a configurable and versatile infrastructure was crucial to help us keep improving our product while actively migrating a core part of our infrastructure such as a main datastore.

The configuration infrastructure we built during the migration is actually still in use at the moment to allow us to run multiple clusters and even host different event metric data into different databases or clusters as per our needs.

## **Current architecture using ClickHouse** [\#](/blog/10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm#current-architecture-using-clickhouse)

The following diagram shows the overall architecture of APM:
