---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: 10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

for the database nodes while using instance types are suitable for an in\-memory cache for the ZooKeeper nodes. ## **Why does ClickHouse work so well for us?** [\#](/blog/10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm#why-does-clickhouse-work-so-well-for-us) ClickHouse did so well with helping us scale APM because:

- ClickHouse is a columnar database designed for heavy analytics, which really matches our use case. We are able to achieve much better response times with ClickHouse than we did with Elasticsearch.
- ClickHouse supports Materialized Views (MVs), which are a very crucial part of our ClickHouse data pipeline. As a matter of fact, we never query the original raw tables — we just use them to serve as a single source of truth to restore data or to re\-populate the MVs if needed, rather, we always read from MVs because they are much smaller in size and they have the data we are looking for already aggregated. Using MVs was the most important part of achieving good response times (it takes a great deal of care to design good MVs).
- ClickHouse supports a family of MergeTree table engines which are LSM\-trees (Log Structured Merge Trees) that are known to have a very good write throughput (writes are merely appends to an internally sorted data structure like a red\-black tree for example and merges are done in the background). This was also crucial for us because we have a high write throughput (\~2 million events per min), so we use the ReplicatedMergeTree engine. ClickHouse writes work best when data is inserted in large batches, so we build our indexers to optimize for this as well.
- ClickHouse supports data compression as it compresses data on disk to save space. An example for this, back when we were running Elasticsearch, we had an index that had around 307 million documents which took up 50GB of disk. Now, the same index but in a ClickHouse table has around 30\.5 billion rows taking up to 350GB which with simple linear interpolation would have taken Elasticsearch around 500GB to store, this is a saving of at least 30% in disk space.
- ClickHouse turned out to be much cheaper to operate, we were able to dramatically reduce the number of machines we had with Elasticsearch. It’s worth mentioning that our data scale has more than tripled since we migrated from Elasticsearch, so the cost saving now is even much greater.
- ClickHouse provides a very SQL like query interface which everyone was familiar with and it made re\-writing our Elasticsearch queries into ClickHouse easier.
- ClickHouse provides a lot of aggregate functions which also helped us write new features into ClickHouse.
