---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: 10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

lot of aggregate functions which also helped us write new features into ClickHouse. ## **Lessons learned and challenges** [\#](/blog/10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm#lessons-learned-and-challenges) While migrating to ClickHouse we faced some challenges that we had to work around. Some of those challenges were:

- It was the first time for us to operate a unmanaged datastore, all our datastores such as MySQL, Elasticsearch and Redis are part of AWS managed cloud services which offers so many useful operation features like scaling, replication, failover, monitoring, automated snapshots and version upgrades, etc. ClickHouse is not part of that, we had to run it on bare EC2 machines and manage it ourselves, which was challenging.
- ClickHouse doesn’t come with an ORM like ActiveRecord for example, so we had to build a query engine to abstract some of the bare ClickHouse code and most importantly, write it in a secure way so that it’s not susceptible for attacks like SQL injection for example (ORMs usually take care of that for you by default).
- Our ClickHouse schema evolves as business needs change, so it’s almost always the case that we need to add new columns or alter the definition of the MVs or even create new ones. We had to figure out ways to write those migrations efficiently, especially when it comes to repopulating the MVs. We also have to run the same migrations multiple times once for each cluster that we run, so we had to figure out ways to automate this to save time. Automating those migrations helped us have a standard of how to do things which helps avoid repeating old mistakes.
- Some of the aggregations we used to rely on while using Elasticsearch is its ability to construct histograms of data with different buckets in an out\-of\-box way. ClickHouse doesn’t support that so we had to build that code ourselves while migrating.
- Our codebases that access ClickHouse use Ruby on Rails and Golang as programming languages, it turned out that the adapters for Ruby and Go were different in terms of the protocol they use to communicate with ClickHouse as one uses HTTP and the other uses TCP, so we had to cater for that in a configurable way.

We have also learned some lessons, for example:
