---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: 10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

terms of the protocol they use to communicate with ClickHouse as one uses HTTP and the other uses TCP, so we had to cater for that in a configurable way. We have also learned some lessons, for example:

- ClickHouse offers many data types and they affect how it performs so we had to carefully choose the correct data type for every column and avoid using `NULL`.
- Table partitioning keys in ClickHouse are crucial for good performance and that we can’t have too many parts, so we had to choose those keys with care. We had multiple iterations with this to find what would work best for our use case.
- ClickHouse has primary keys but they are not unique and attempts to use a unique key, especially if random like a UUID, would most definitely ruin compression and will result in very large datasets. We learned this the hard way.
- ClickHouse is an analytics database, so it’s designed mostly for immutable data, it works very well for reads but performs badly for updates and deletes (as it has to reorder data parts which is expensive). So we learned to choose what to store in ClickHouse and what to store in MySQL and we also had to design data parts in a way that supports deleting data via dropping a part instead of using deletes.
- ClickHouse materialized views are very good for read performance so we had to learn how to design materialized views in a way that would result in small MVs compared to the original table size to have better query response times. This included efforts to decrease the cardinality of an MV by rounding some fields and so on.
- ClickHouse supports buffer tables for writes, which turned out to be very useful for handling our very high write throughput.

## **Conclusion and general advice** [\#](/blog/10x-improved-response-times-cheaper-to-operate-and-30-storage-reduction-why-instabug-chose-clickhouse-for-apm#conclusion-and-general-advice)
