---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/6680d8b1ef4954fd9fe1419e0c6dff2b0ce8dbc2
topic: moving-clickhouse-to-another-server-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

- Run `SYSTEM RESTORE REPLICA table_name` to rebuild replication metadata in ZooKeeper. 5. **Test the application** - Point your test environment to the new cluster. - Validate queries, schema consistency, and application behavior. 6. **Final sync and switchover**

	- Stop ClickHouse on the old cluster.
	- Immediately run a final incremental `rsync` to catch last\-minute changes.
	- Reinitialize ZooKeeper/Keeper database (stop/clear snapshots/start).
	- Run `SYSTEM RESTORE REPLICA table_name` to rebuild replication metadata in ZooKeeper again.
	- Start ClickHouse on the new cluster and switch production traffic.
	- add more replicas as needed

NOTES:

1. To restore metadata on all cluster nodes by a single command, use `ON CLUSTER` modifier for the RESTORE REPLICA command.
2. You can build a script to run restore replica commands over all replicated tables by query:

```
select 'SYSTEM RESTORE REPLICA ' || database || '.' || table || ' ON CLUSTER {cluster} ;'
from system.tables
where engine ilike 'Replicated%'

```
2. If you are using a mount point that differs from /var/lib/clickhouse/data, adjust the rsync command accordingly to point to the correct location. For example, suppose you reconfigure the storage path as follows in /etc/clickhouse\-server/config.d/config.xml.

```
<clickhouse>
    <!-- Path to data directory, with trailing slash. -->
    <path>/data1/clickhouse/</path>
    ...
</clickhouse>

```
You’ll need to use `/data1/clickhouse` instead of `/var/lib/clickhouse` in the rsync paths.

3. ClickHouse Docker container image does not have rsync installed. Add it using apt\-get or run sidecar in k8s or run a service pod with volumes attached.
4. If you running rsync to multiple replicas or planning to use same (Zoo)Keeper ensemble for source and destination ClickHouse servers, you need to remove server uuid file after syncing data with rsync.

```
rm /var/lib/clickhouse/uuid

```
Otherwise, it can lead to hard\-to\-debug replication issues. Replicas will break each other’s sessions with (Zoo)Keeper.

Last modified 2026\.03\.17: [Fix formatting and update rsync instructions (6680d8b)](https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/6680d8b1ef4954fd9fe1419e0c6dff2b0ce8dbc2)
