---
source: blog
url: https://www.unicef.org/
topic: we-stand-with-ukraine
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

some had not. We reacted by accelerating the relocation of our colleagues out of Russia as fast as we could, and feel so fortunate that as of the date of this blog post, that process has been completed.

However, until that process was complete, we made the decision to largely refrain from broadcasting our views on Putin’s invasion of Ukraine as we wanted to ensure our people and their families were safely out of Russia before making the sort of strong public condemnation Putin’s actions require.

## Statement from Aaron Katz, our CEO: [\#](/blog/we-stand-with-ukraine#statement-from-aaron-katz-our-ceo)

Let me start by personally condemning Russia’s senseless and unprovoked invasion of Ukraine. It violates international law and has caused incalculable human suffering.

When I was approached with the idea of spinning ClickHouse out of Yandex, the first thought that went through my mind was: *how can I unleash the potential of ClickHouse while distancing the company from Russia?* While I believed strongly in the power and potential of the technology, the idea of me and a dozen unknown engineers in Moscow coming together to create a company seemed quite obscure. As I spent more time with Alexey Milovidov, the creator of ClickHouse, the idea of creating ClickHouse, Inc., an independent company, started to take shape. When Yury Izrailevsky decided to join us and run product and engineering, any uncertainty I held quickly dissipated as I have long considered Yury one of the most talented engineering leaders in our industry.

Building a distributed and diverse team has always been our vision since the company’s inception. Today, we have over 70 employees living around the world in the United States, the Netherlands, Germany, France, Spain, United Kingdom, Australia, and Israel.

Questions have circulated about the governance and control of our company. Hopefully our comments above address any remaining questions folks may have.
