---
source: blog
url: https://www.reddit.com/r/explainlikeimfive/)*
topic: agent-facing-analytics
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

like [LLMs.txt](https://llmstxt.org/), which would present the documentation in a machine\-readable form. This makes it easier for AI agents to understand and use documentation, ensuring more effective interactions with the data. #### Scaling real\-time analytics for AI workloads [\#](/blog/agent-facing-analytics#scaling-real-time-analytics-for-ai-workloads)

Just like traditional interactive users, AI agents require fast response times for concurrent tasks. The difference here is that each AI prompt can trigger multiple exploratory and aggregation queries in short time spans. With organizations deploying AI agents at a rapid pace, real\-time analytics systems could face specific scalability challenges. The solution isn’t very specific in this case: [efficient](https://benchmark.clickhouse.com/) real\-time databases capable of supporting high\-throughput and exploratory workloads without compromising performance.

#### A server\-side state for AI Memory [\#](/blog/agent-facing-analytics#a-server-side-state-for-ai-memory)

AI systems can retain and recall information over time which can help them make better decisions, personalize responses, or improve performance based on past interactions. This is often referred to as “AI memory”.

In the database, we can envision server\-side features to support maintaining a state for the agents, the same way interactive users can maintain sessions with their settings and preferences preserved. This can be extended to various cache levels if recurring queries are submitted (especially relevant for data discovery queries) and will require reliable ways to identify agent users and the scope of their tasks.

#### Customized access control models and mechanisms [\#](/blog/agent-facing-analytics#customized-access-control-models-and-mechanisms)

Databases use Role\-Based Access Control (RBAC) models to manage user permissions according to roles assigned to users, ensuring secure access to data. Similarly, the API landscape has evolved to support short\-lived API tokens, which offer temporary access to specific resources, minimizing the risk of unauthorized access. There may be lessons to be learned from the API world to enhance secure access for AI agents, such as using short\-lived tokens that align with the duration of an AI agent’s task.

> "Our vision is bold: to help customers scale their workforces and augment their employees with one billion Agentforce agents by the end of 2025"  
> 
> Marc Benioff, CEO of Salesforce, about [AgentForce, Salesforce’s Agentic Offering](https://www.salesforce.com/news/stories/agentforce-launch-zone-announcement/)
