---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus/blob/948b52e6a4ecf65d1b907afbed81478f17408070/tsdb/head.go#L2383
topic: clickhouse-vs-prometheus-for-high-cardinality-part-1-understanding-the-problem
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

label sets remain reasonably sized, the storage model is efficient and performs well. For these reasons, Prometheus has achieved widespread adoption and remains a successful storage engine for low\-cardinality metric data. ### Write\-time issues with high cardinality [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-promethous-high-cardinality-p1-understanding-the-problem#write-time-issues-with-high-cardinality)

The weaknesses of this model appear under high cardinality and high churn.

First, there is a real overhead per series. Every time series has its own in\-memory structure, including its labels, chunks, and entries in the inverted index. That overhead is manageable with a stable number of series, but it scales linearly as the number of unique series grows. More labels mean more possible combinations, and more combinations mean more series. Each one carries this overhead. It is not uncommon for the **Head to consume 10s or 100s of gigabytes of RAM under cardinality explosion**, leading to memory pressure or even crashes.

Labels such as `container_id` are particularly useful in environments like Kubernetes because they allow operators to identify issues with specific pods or container instances and preserve full\-fidelity operational context. The challenge is that these labels are both high cardinality and highly ephemeral.

As workloads scale, restart, and terminate, new series are continuously created, while old ones linger in memory until cleanup. In Prometheus, this increases memory overhead and repeatedly forces the system down the more expensive series creation path rather than the cheaper append path. As a result, many teams end up stripping these dimensions, sampling them aggressively, or avoiding them entirely to prevent cardinality explosion. For example, in [this post](https://blog.cloudflare.com/how-cloudflare-runs-prometheus-at-scale), CloudFlare detail how they use limits on new series creation to inhibit cardinality explosions

All of these factors compound, making it harder for Prometheus to perform when cardinality exceeds what the model was originally optimized for.

> Aside from the technical challenges of cardinality in Prometheus, there is also a commercial impact if you’re using an observability vendor. Many vendors that use a series\-based time\-series data model charge based on cardinality, often per active series or per data points ingested per minute. This is because high cardinality directly increases their infrastructure costs, which they are forced to pass on to their users.

### Write time compromises [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-promethous-high-cardinality-p1-understanding-the-problem#write-time-compromises)
