---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/motsc
topic: what-s-new-in-clickstack-january-26
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

is never missed, but they may produce false positives, which results in additional granules being scanned. This tradeoff allows ClickHouse to significantly reduce IO and CPU for text and high cardinality searches while keeping index size relatively small.

Until now, ClickStack used the [tokenbf\_v1 index](https://clickhouse.com/docs/optimize/skipping-indexes/examples#token-bloom-filter-tokenbf-v1-for-word-based-search) for log body searches. This index pre\-tokenizes text by splitting on non\-alphanumeric characters and stores the resulting tokens in a Bloom filter. While convenient, it exposed several tuning parameters that were difficult to reason about in practice. Users had to choose the filter size, number of hash functions, random seed, and granularity. Although a granularity of 8 generally worked well, the other parameters often required trial\-and\-error or direct assistance from ClickHouse experts.

In this release, we have now also support the simpler [`bloom_filter`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/optimize/skipping-indexes/examples#generic-bloom-filter-scalar) index combined with explicit tokenization using the [`tokens`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/functions/splitting-merging-functions#tokens) function. This index takes a single optional parameter: the acceptable false positive rate between 0 and 1, with a default of 0\.01\. Tokenization is handled separately, using the same non alphanumeric splitting behavior by default, but now with the flexibility to adjust tokenization explicitly if needed (this opens some interesting opportunities we plan to explore!).

This change dramatically reduces the tuning surface area. Instead of juggling multiple low level parameters, users now only need to think about granularity and false positive rate. We still recommend a granularity of 8 for log body searches, and for most workloads the default false positive rate is sufficient. When tuning is needed, it becomes much simpler to evaluate values slightly above or below the default and observe the impact on query performance.

> Note that lowering the false positive rate too aggressively, with the aim of skipping more granules, is not always beneficial. Doing so increases the filter size, which can slow evaluation and increase load times \- although this is mitigated somewhat with \[recent changes to stream skip indices](https://clickhouse.com/blog/streaming\-secondary\-indices). Allowing slightly higher false positives can actually improve performance by reducing index overhead. The easiest approach is to experiment with values near the default, sticking with the default if no clear improvement emerges.
