---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/motsc
topic: what-s-new-in-clickstack-january-26
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

shows an improvement in query performance of around 50%, with pruning more than 4x more effective (1\.76m vs 10\.66m rows processed) for the `bloom_filter` index. However, note how performance is appreciably better for both vs using no indexes.

An astute reader will notice the query syntax has also changed.

To ensure the index is used, we have updated how text search queries are generated in the ClickStack UI. Previously, ClickStack UI lowercased the log body and query text (we prefer case\-insensitive search for logs), relying on implicit tokenization in the Bloom filter. The UI would also tokenize the query, using `hasToken` function with conjunctions relying on boolean logic e.g. `(((hasToken(lower(Body), lower('Failed'))) AND (hasToken(lower(Body), lower('to'))) AND (hasToken(lower(Body), lower('place')))))`

With the new filter, queries use the `tokens` and `lower` functions at query time, deferring tokenization to ClickHouse, with the `hasAll` function used to check token presence i.e. `hasAll(tokens(lower(Body)), tokens(lower('Failed to place')))`. This ensures the index is used correctly while preserving existing search behavior.

> ClickStack automatically checks the index type in use and uses the correct querying approach.

### Supporting text indices [\#](/blog/whats-new-in-clickstack-january-2026#supporting-text-indices)

Bloom filters are still a powerful tool, but they are not without limitations. False positives are unavoidable, and even simplified tuning introduces tradeoffs. For some workloads, especially large\-scale log search, inverted indices can offer compelling advantages (although with tradeoffs).

ClickHouse’s inverted text index has undergone significant rework and is now available in beta. Recent improvements have focused on making it viable at large scale, particularly in ClickHouse Cloud on object storage. Internally, the implementation still uses Bloom filters as a lightweight existence check, allowing ClickHouse to skip expensive index evaluation when a term is guaranteed not to be present in a granule.

Our benchmarking on logging datasets has been especially encouraging, with inverted indices outperforming Bloom filters in both selectivity and query latency.

As a result, ClickStack now supports this index type directly in the UI. Enabling this required further updates to our Lucene\-to\-SQL compilation pipeline so that `hasAllTokens` is used when a text index is present. Note that the index is responsible for tokenization as well as pre\-processing \- expressions defined on index creation. For ClickStack, we use the `splitByNonAlpha` function for the tokenizer and `lower` for the pre\-processor \- thus replicating current search behavior.
