---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/motsc
topic: what-s-new-in-clickstack-january-26
ch_version_introduced: '0.025'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

from the chart legend. Clicking a legend item instantly isolates that series in the chart, making it easy to focus on a single signal without touching the query. Click it again, and the chart resets to show everything.

Loading video...We added a bit of extra polish here too. By holding Shift, you can select multiple series at once and compare them side by side. All legend entries remain visible, with clear visual cues showing what is selected and what is temporarily dimmed, and the Y axis automatically rescales to fit only the visible data. It is a small feature, but one that makes exploring charts faster, more interactive, and a little more satisfying to use.

### Collector improvements [\#](/blog/whats-new-in-clickstack-january-2026#collector-improvements)

ClickStack is designed to make getting started with observability as simple as possible. It ships with a pre\-configured OpenTelemetry Collector that just works with ClickHouse, with sensible defaults for batching, custom processing, and schema enforcement already in place.

By default, the collector is orchestrated using OpAMP, which secures the OTLP ingestion endpoint with an ingestion key exposed directly in the UI. Users can copy this key and send data to the collector with the appropriate authorization header, providing a secure and frictionless onboarding experience from the very first event.

As ClickStack has grown, and with the emergence of the managed offering, more users want to run the OpenTelemetry Collector independently of the UI while still benefiting from the ClickStack distribution and its ongoing improvements. To support this, ingestion can now be decoupled from the UI. If the `OPAMP_SERVER_URL` environment variable is omitted or set to an empty value, communication with the OpAmp server is disabled. The collector will continue to run independently, without relying on the UI for configuration.

To secure ingestion in this mode, users can provide an `OTLP_AUTH_TOKEN`. When set, this token is required for all data sent to its OTLP endpoint. This change makes it easier to get started with Managed ClickStack, while also enabling advanced users to operate their own collectors and still take advantage of ClickStack’s standardized processing and schema enforcement.

```
# Example command for running the ClickStack OpenTelemetry collector
docker run -e CLICKHOUSE_ENDPOINT=https://myhost:8443 -e CLICKHOUSE_USER="default" - e CLICKHOUSE_PASSWORD="<password>" -p 4317 -p 4318 -e OTLP_AUTH_TOKEN "a_secure_string_value" clickhouse/clickhouse-otel-collector:latest

```

## And finally, a new theme [\#](/blog/whats-new-in-clickstack-january-2026#and-finally-a-new-theme)
