---
source: blog
url: https://poolside.ai/
topic: how-poolside-is-using-clickhouse-to-build-next-gen-ai-for-software-development
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

engineers. Today, Eiso says, they have "around a dozen people running data pipelines in different ways, shapes, and forms." This rapid growth has underlined the need for a more advanced database solution to manage their increasingly complex workflows.

At the heart of poolside’s work is an iterative approach to AI development. Their models analyze billions of documents and receive deterministic feedback, allowing them to improve reasoning and coding capabilities. But as the company scaled, poolside’s existing pipelines struggled to keep up with the demands of running large\-scale queries across datasets. These delays slowed the team’s ability to experiment, make decisions, and refine their models.

> "How fast can we go from idea to dataset? That’s the metric that drives everything we do."

Adding to the complexity was the sheer scale of their operations. With massive compute clusters powering their AI training and research, they needed infrastructure that could handle large\-scale data and help their team work faster and smarter. "How fast can we go from idea to dataset? That’s the metric that drives everything we do," Eiso says. Simply put, their existing setup couldn’t keep up with the speed or scalability their vision demanded.

## Choosing ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/poolside-using-clickhouse-to-build-next-gen-ai-for-software-development#choosing-clickhouse-cloud)

> "If you only get to pick one thing, you’re glad you picked ClickHouse."

Eiso was no stranger to ClickHouse. He first encountered the database nearly a decade ago when it was open\-sourced and had used it extensively at his previous companies, source{d} and Athenian. Having witnessed its speed and efficiency firsthand, he knew it could address Poolside’s growing data needs. "Even when you abuse it, you’re happy you did,” he says. “If you only get to pick one thing, you’re glad you picked ClickHouse."

While the familiarity helped, Eiso says the decision to choose ClickHouse was primarily about one thing: speed. "At the end of the day, the only thing we care about is speed," he says. Whether querying billions of records or analyzing the performance of AI models in real time, ClickHouse’s superior performance as a columnar OLAP database meant it could deliver results in seconds. For poolside’s iterative workflows, this translated into tangible advantages — running more experiments, exploring more ideas, and refining their models faster.
