---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp
topic: getting-started-with-clickhouse-13-mistakes-and-how-to-avoid-them
ch_version_introduced: '335.39'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

in all granules being read into memory and evaluated. In this case, the index cost has been incurred for no benefit, effectively slowing the full table scan. ## 9\. LIMIT doesn't always short circuit \+ point lookups [\#](/blog/common-getting-started-issues-with-clickhouse#9-limit-doesnt-always-short-circuit--point-lookups)

We often find OLTP users new to ClickHouse reaching for the LIMIT clause to optimize queries by limiting the number of results returned. If coming from an OLTP database this should intuitively optimize queries: less data returned \= faster result, surely? Yes and no.

The effectiveness of this technique depends on whether the query can be run entirely in a [streaming fashion](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/#implementation-details). Some queries, such as `SELECT * FROM table LIMIT 10` will scan only a few [granules](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/improving-query-performance/sparse-primary-indexes/sparse-primary-indexes-design) of the first few parts before reaching 10 results and returning the result to the user. This is also true for cases where the user orders the SELECT by a primary key field due to the [`optimize_read_in_order`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/order-by/#optimization-of-data-reading) setting defaulting to 1\. However, if the user runs `SELECT a from table ORDER BY b LIMIT N`, whereby the table is ordered by `a` and not by `b`, ClickHouse cannot avoid reading the entire table i.e., no early termination of the query is possible.

For aggregations, things are a little more complex. A full table scan is also required unless the user is grouping by the primary key and sets [`optimize_aggregation_in_order=1`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/#optimize_aggregation_in_order). In this case, a propagation signal is sent once sufficient results are acquired. Provided previous steps of the query are capable of streaming the data, e.g., filter, then this mechanism will work, and the query will terminate early. Normally, however, an aggregation must consume all table data before returning and applying the LIMIT as the final stage.

As an example, we create and load the table from our [UK Property Price Paid tutorial](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/uk-price-paid) with 27\.55 million rows. This dataset is available within our play.clickhouse.com environment.

With `optimize_aggregation_in_order=0` this aggregation query, that is grouping by the primary keys, performs a full table scan before applying the LIMIT 1 clause:

```

```
1clickhouse-cloud :) SELECT
2    postcode1, postcode2,
3    formatReadableQuantity(avg(price)) AS avg_price
4FROM uk_price_paid
5GROUP BY postcode1, postcode2
6LIMIT 1;
7
8┌─postcode1─┬─postcode2─┬─avg_price───────┐
9│ AL4       │ 0DE       │ 335.39 thousand │
10└───────────┴───────────┴─────────────────┘
11
12Elapsed: 3.028 sec, read 27.55 million rows, 209.01 MB.
```

```
