---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/sample.md)#
topic: sample-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

For example, `SAMPLE 10000000`. In this case, the query is executed on a sample of at least `n` rows (but not significantly more than this). For example, `SAMPLE 10000000` runs the query on a minimum of 10,000,000 rows.

Since the minimum unit for data reading is one granule (its size is set by the `index_granularity` setting), it makes sense to set a sample that is much larger than the size of the granule.

When using the `SAMPLE n` clause, you do not know which relative percent of data was processed. So you do not know the coefficient the aggregate functions should be multiplied by. Use the `_sample_factor` virtual column to get the approximate result.

The `_sample_factor` column contains relative coefficients that are calculated dynamically. This column is created automatically when you [create](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#table_engine-mergetree-creating-a-table) a table with the specified sampling key. The usage examples of the `_sample_factor` column are shown below.

Let's consider the table `visits`, which contains the statistics about site visits. The first example shows how to calculate the number of page views:

```
SELECT sum(PageViews * _sample_factor)
FROM visits
SAMPLE 10000000

```

The next example shows how to calculate the total number of visits:

```
SELECT sum(_sample_factor)
FROM visits
SAMPLE 10000000

```

The example below shows how to calculate the average session duration. Note that you do not need to use the relative coefficient to calculate the average values.

```
SELECT avg(Duration)
FROM visits
SAMPLE 10000000

```

## SAMPLE K OFFSET M[​](#sample-k-offset-m "Direct link to SAMPLE K OFFSET M")

Here `k` and `m` are numbers from 0 to 1\. Examples are shown below.

**Example 1**

```
SAMPLE 1/10

```

In this example, the sample is 1/10th of all data:

`[++------------]`

**Example 2**

```
SAMPLE 1/10 OFFSET 1/2

```

Here, a sample of 10% is taken from the second half of the data.

`[------++------]`

[PreviousREPLACE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/replace-modifier)[NextUNION](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/union)- [SAMPLE K](#sample-k)- [SAMPLE N](#sample-n)- [SAMPLE K OFFSET M](#sample-k-offset-m)
Was this page helpful?
