---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/company/events/v22-4-release-webinar/
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-april-2022-json-json-json
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

going with ClickHouse into one video the length of a coffee break (that is, unless you only drink espresso). Have a listen [here](https://clickhouse.com/company/events/getting-started-with-clickhouse/) and send it to your friends that don’t know ClickHouse yet! ## **ClickHouse v22\.3** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-newsletter-april-2022-json-json-json#clickhouse-v223)

On March 17, we released ClickHouse 22\.3 LTS with lots of new features (especially one that we are very excited about). It is also a Long Term Support (LTS) release, so you can use it for the next year and we’ll keep the bug fixes coming. If you’re not planning to upgrade your ClickHouse monthly with the newest available version you should be on an LTS release!

What’s in 22\.3:

1. [JSON](https://presentations.clickhouse.com/release_22.3/) is a new data type that allows you to ingest any JSON documents directly into a column. Under the hood, ClickHouse will create dynamic subcolumns to store the data, so access is still fast.

Historically, when storing JSON documents in ClickHouse you would create table columns for each field. This works well if you know beforehand what your data is going to look like. But with JSON this is often not the case, especially if it is logs from different applications and services, for example. To get this kind of “semi\-structured” data into ClickHouse, it was often necessary to develop [sophisticated data schemas](https://eng.uber.com/logging/) involving arrays and materialized columns.

No longer! Now it can all just go into one column of type JSON. It’s a really powerful feature and we’re very excited about it, so give it a go and let us know what you think.
2. **ARM** builds are now available [as Docker images](https://hub.docker.com/r/clickhouse/clickhouse-server/tags)! For example, you can run ClickHouse on macOS using Docker with `docker run clickhouse/clickhouse-server`. All functional tests are now passing for ARM builds in our CI. In addition you can now obtain deb, rpm, apk, and binary packages.
3. **[S3 disks](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree/#table_engine-mergetree-s3)** as storage for ClickHouse are now fully tested as well. You can configure using S3 for storage in the `<storage_configuration>` section of the ClickHouse configuration file. Note: There are still some performance issues that we are working on.
4. The **[Hive table function](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/34946)** allows you to read data from Apache Hive tables directly and combine it with data in ClickHouse. Or insert the data into ClickHouse using `INSERT INTO clickhouse_table SELECT * FROM hive(...)`.
