---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/company/events/v22-4-release-webinar/
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-april-2022-json-json-json
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

working on. 4. The **[Hive table function](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/34946)** allows you to read data from Apache Hive tables directly and combine it with data in ClickHouse. Or insert the data into ClickHouse using `INSERT INTO clickhouse_table SELECT * FROM hive(...)`.

For more details including live demos have a look at the release webinar recording [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GzeANZzPras). Also, [register](https://clickhouse.com/company/events/v22-4-release-webinar/) for the April release webinar of version 22\.4 on Thursday, April 21 @ 9 am PST / 5 pm GMT.

We hope you enjoy this release and please upgrade!

## **Query of the Month: JSON, JSON, JSON** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-newsletter-april-2022-json-json-json#query-of-the-month-json-json-json)

Let’s take the new JSON data type for a spin:

```
SET allow_experimental_object_type = 1;
CREATE TABLE json (o JSON) ENGINE = Memory
INSERT INTO json VALUES ('{"a": 1, "b": { "c": 2, "d": [1, 2, 3] }}')
SELECT o.a, o.b.c, o.b.d[3] FROM json

```

The select statement will return 1, 2, 3 and you can see how JSON objects in ClickHouse support nested objects and arrays and how neat the query syntax is.

You might already have JSON data in a file somewhere. To insert it into a JSON column ClickHouse, you can run something like:

```
CREATE TABLE logs (message JSON) ENGINE = MergeTree ORDER BY tuple()
INSERT INTO logs SELECT json FROM file(log.json.gz', JSONAsString)

```

Note how we use the `JSONAsString` format to prevent ClickHouse treating each JSON field as its own column (and even with the new JSON data type, if your data is structured and the fields are known, you should still consider doing that).

Note also that we cannot sort the MergeTree table by anything in the data, because with JSON, we do not yet know the structure of the data beforehand. For large datasets, not having a sorting key is bad! In practice, we will often want to extract at least some important and common fields from a JSON document into their own columns. For example, the timestamp:

```
CREATE TABLE logs (
	timestamp DateTime,
	message JSON
) ENGINE = MergeTree ORDER BY timestamp


INSERT INTO logs
SELECT parseDateTimeBestEffort(JSONExtractString(json, 'timestamp')), json
FROM file('access.json.gz', JSONAsString)

```

Lastly, when displaying a JSON column ClickHouse only shows the field values by default (because internally, it is represented as a tuple). You can display the field names as well like this:
