---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/timeSeriesPredictLinearToGrid.md)#
topic: timeseriespredictlineartogrid-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '9.166667'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# timeSeriesPredictLinearToGrid \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Functions](/docs/sql-reference/functions)- [Aggregate functions](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions)- [Aggregate Functions](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference)- timeSeriesPredictLinearToGrid
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/timeSeriesPredictLinearToGrid.md)# timeSeriesPredictLinearToGrid

## timeSeriesPredictLinearToGrid[​](#timeSeriesPredictLinearToGrid "Direct link to timeSeriesPredictLinearToGrid")

Introduced in: v25\.6\.0

Aggregate function that takes time series data as pairs of timestamps and values and calculates a [PromQL\-like linear prediction](https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/querying/functions/#predict_linear) with a specified prediction timestamp offset from this data on a regular time grid described by start timestamp, end timestamp and step. For each point on the grid the samples for calculating `predict_linear` are considered within the specified time window.

NoteThis function is experimental, enable it by setting `allow_experimental_ts_to_grid_aggregate_function=true`.

**Syntax**

```
timeSeriesPredictLinearToGrid(start_timestamp, end_timestamp, grid_step, staleness, predict_offset)(timestamp, value)

```

**Parameters**

- `start_timestamp` — Specifies start of the grid. \- `end_timestamp` — Specifies end of the grid. \- `grid_step` — Specifies step of the grid in seconds. \- `staleness` — Specifies the maximum "staleness" in seconds of the considered samples. The staleness window is a left\-open and right\-closed interval. \- `predict_offset` — Specifies number of seconds of offset to add to prediction time.

**Arguments**

- `timestamp` — Timestamp of the sample. Can be individual values or arrays. \- `value` — Value of the time series corresponding to the timestamp. Can be individual values or arrays.

**Returned value**

`predict_linear` values on the specified grid as an `Array(Nullable(Float64))`. The returned array contains one value for each time grid point. The value is NULL if there are not enough samples within the window to calculate the rate value for a particular grid point.

**Examples**

**Calculate predict\_linear values on the grid \[90, 105, 120, 135, 150, 165, 180, 195, 210] with a 60 second offset**
