---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/other-functions.md)#
topic: other-functions-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.3'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 42
total_chunks_in_doc: 51
---

server's Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) certificate if it has been configured. See [Configuring TLS](/docs/guides/sre/tls/configuring-tls) for more information on how to configure ClickHouse to use OpenSSL certificates to validate connections. **Syntax** ``` showCertificate() ``` **Arguments** - None. **Returned value**

Returns map of key\-value pairs relating to the configured SSL certificate. [`Map(String, String)`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/map)

**Examples**

**Usage example**

```
SELECT showCertificate() FORMAT LineAsString;

```

```
{'version':'1','serial_number':'2D9071D64530052D48308473922C7ADAFA85D6C5','signature_algo':'sha256WithRSAEncryption','issuer':'/CN=marsnet.local CA','not_before':'May  7 17:01:21 2024 GMT','not_after':'May  7 17:01:21 2025 GMT','subject':'/CN=chnode1','pkey_algo':'rsaEncryption'}

```

## sleep[​](#sleep "Direct link to sleep")

Introduced in: v1\.1\.0

Pauses the execution of a query by the specified number of seconds.
The function is primarily used for testing and debugging purposes.

The `sleep()` function should generally not be used in production environments, as it can negatively impact query performance and system responsiveness.
However, it can be useful in the following scenarios:

1. **Testing**: When testing or benchmarking ClickHouse, you may want to simulate delays or introduce pauses to observe how the system behaves under certain conditions.
2. **Debugging**: If you need to examine the state of the system or the execution of a query at a specific point in time, you can use `sleep()` to introduce a pause, allowing you to inspect or collect relevant information.
3. **Simulation**: In some cases, you may want to simulate real\-world scenarios where delays or pauses occur, such as network latency or external system dependencies.

NoteIt's important to use the `sleep()` function judiciously and only when necessary, as it can potentially impact the overall performance and responsiveness of your ClickHouse system.

For security reasons, the function can only be executed in the default user profile (with `allow_sleep` enabled).

**Syntax**

```
sleep(seconds)

```

**Arguments**

- `seconds` — The number of seconds to pause the query execution to a maximum of 3 seconds. It can be a floating\-point value to specify fractional seconds. [`const UInt*`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint) or [`const Float*`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/float)

**Returned value**

Returns `0`. [`UInt8`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)

**Examples**

**Usage example**

```
-- This query will pause for 2 seconds before completing.
-- During this time, no results will be returned, and the query will appear to be hanging or unresponsive.
SELECT sleep(2);

```

```
┌─sleep(2)─┐
│        0 │
└──────────┘
1 row in set. Elapsed: 2.012 sec.

```

## sleepEachRow[​](#sleepEachRow "Direct link to sleepEachRow")

Introduced in: v1\.1\.0
