---
source: blog
url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/funge/
topic: hifi-s-migration-from-bigquery-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

to help store and organize the royalty data. For those who are unaware, ClickHouse is a fast open\-source column\-oriented database management system that allows for generating analytical data reports in real\-time using SQL queries. According to the website:

> ClickHouse’s performance exceeds all other column\-oriented database management systems. It processes billions of rows and tens of gigabytes of data per server per second.

And from what we’ve seen, it is indeed amazingly fast! Now, even with caching turned off, the largest of our datasets loads in under a few seconds. Our customers are really happy with the user experience and we are confident in our ability to scale as we add more customers and roll out new products.

The speed of ClickHouse is also a huge benefit when calculating internal metrics such as the total royalties we have in the system as well as indicators like the total royalties paid out in the last year. However, if you have a background in traditional relational database management systems, the speed of ClickHouse comes with some surprises! Operations, like joins, do not necessarily work as expected. If that sounds like you, or you're just interested in learning more about ClickHouse in general, then this blog post is for you.

## Before ClickHouse [\#](/blog/hifis-migration-from-bigquery-to-clickhouse#before-clickhouse)

Before we switched to ClickHouse, we stored royalty data in Google Cloud (GCP) using [BigQuery](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery) (BQ). The major challenge with BQ was the pricing structure. This [Quora](https://www.quora.com/Is-Googles-BigQuery-expensive) post captures the problem well:

> It \[BQ] discourages data usage. Instead of encouraging analysts to query the database in any and all ways they can imagine you’ll end up worrying about needing to limit them and come up with processes for controlling the volume of data being used. As a data\-driven company, this notion contradicted our company values.

Google’s solution to this problem is to purchase BQ slots (a dedicated pool) ahead of time, so you don’t need to worry about increasing costs for BQ consumption. For a big established company, with well defined and predictable usage patterns, this makes sense. But for a startup, patterns can change dramatically week to week. We simply don’t want the hassle of trying to figure out in advance of how many BQ slots to purchase \- what a headache!
