---
source: blog
url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/funge/
topic: hifi-s-migration-from-bigquery-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

this makes sense. But for a startup, patterns can change dramatically week to week. We simply don’t want the hassle of trying to figure out in advance of how many BQ slots to purchase \- what a headache!

The other option we considered was just putting royalty data in GCP [Cloud SQL](https://cloud.google.com/sql/postgresql) for PostgreSQL (PG). That’s not really what PG was designed for and from our testing it didn’t seem like a viable long\-term option. We did also look at recent developments like [AlloyDB for PostgreSQL](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/databases/alloydb-for-postgresql-columnar-engine) which looks interesting, but we didn’t want to be tied to GCP’s proprietary technology.

## Joins in ClickHouse [\#](/blog/hifis-migration-from-bigquery-to-clickhouse#joins-in-clickhouse)

ClickHouse is a unique technology and works differently than other databases. If you’re coming from a more traditional OLTP world, you need to be mindful of these differences for the best experience. This first challenge we came across was that joins require a little more understanding of how ClickHouse works to make them performant. Before going into details, first some background. We store music royalty data from artist royalty statements in a ClickHouse table called `normalized`. Each statement line is stored as a row in the table with the `timesStatement` column representing the date of the statement and `resourceFileName` representing the name of the statement file. Sometimes the dates for specific statements are incorrect and we want to fix them manually.

Since each statement contains thousands of rows (and in some cases hundreds of thousands), we want to simply update the `timesStatement` column with the correct date by joining with a separate table that contains just two columns `statementDate` (correct dates) and `resourceFileName` (the name of the file for which the date should be updated). In traditional relational databases, you would simply join two tables and update table1 with data from table2\. While this is possible in ClickHouse, we found we could achieve better performance using a JOIN engine table. Here’s how we updated the `timesStatement` column in the normalized table:

1. Imported data with the new statement dates into a new table `temp_statementDates`
2. Created the join engine table

```
CREATE TABLE statementDates_join as temp_statementDates Engine = Join(ANY, LEFT, resourceFileName);

```

3. Populated the join engine table

```
INSERT INTO statementDates_join 
SELECT *
from temp_statementDates;

```

4. Updated `normalized` using the join engine table
