---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/en/2021/clickhouse-v21.11-released/#async-inserts
topic: admixer-aggregates-over-1-billion-unique-users-a-day-using-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '21.11'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

investigate if the new [asynchronous insert feature](https://clickhouse.com/blog/en/2021/clickhouse-v21.11-released/#async-inserts) in version 21\.11 would be an alternative to using a buffer table. We also reviewed the implementation of the event queue. Initially, we used Redis (but Redis is InMemory storage), thus:

- On server restart, there was a risk of losing events;
- The amount of RAM is relatively small, and if we planned to stop the Events Processor or ClickHouse, there was a risk of overflowing the event queue, so a very high response rate to event processor problems was required.

We tried to replace Redis and use Kafka instead, but the Kafka driver for ClickHouse at the time had issues with arrays (which has since been fixed).

Therefore, we implemented our event queue, which was stored on the disk of each EventHandler component, and the local EventsProcessor was located on the same server. The number of EventsProcessor components has increased, which means that the number of insert requests in ClickHouse has also increased, but this was not a problem.

Since financial optimization was also an essential factor for us, this scheme proved to be excellent in this regard as well. To receive processing and storage of data from ADX, we assembled a cluster with 15 servers (40 threads, 128 RAM, SSD storage), and we also took this with a margin. For the storage cluster for unique users, we used a cluster with 6 of the same servers.

An important point was also the work with receiving data from clusters. If you recklessly send a request to the cluster, this could create a pretty significant load on it, leading to the slowdown of other processes. But ClickHouse has settings for limiting resources and allocating quotas for specific users, which allowed us to solve this case quickly. All configuration files can be perfectly placed in the configuration management system and managed from there.

## **ClickHouse Handles Over 1 Billion Unique Users Per Day** [\#](/blog/admixer-aggregates-over-1-billion-unique-users-a-day-using-clickhouse#clickhouse-handles-over-1-billion-unique-users-per-day-)
