---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/en/2021/clickhouse-v21.11-released/#async-inserts
topic: admixer-aggregates-over-1-billion-unique-users-a-day-using-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '21.11'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

for specific users, which allowed us to solve this case quickly. All configuration files can be perfectly placed in the configuration management system and managed from there. ## **ClickHouse Handles Over 1 Billion Unique Users Per Day** [\#](/blog/admixer-aggregates-over-1-billion-unique-users-a-day-using-clickhouse#clickhouse-handles-over-1-billion-unique-users-per-day-)

In addition to statistics aggregation, which summed up metrics by dimension, Admixer provides information on how many unique users have watched ads for an arbitrary time. The number of uniques cannot be summed up. In our system, the user ID is the UUID. When we want to get several unique UUIDs for some arbitrary period, we need to recalculate the unique UUIDs for this period each time. We cannot decompose all possible combinations in advance since the intersection will be too large.

Before using ClickHouse, we could count uniques only for predefined periods: day, week, month, all the time. Also, the number of slices was limited. Also, constant bulk requests for Aerospike slowed down the event processor.

AggregatingMergeTree allowed us with minimal costs to count unique users by a large number of keys in one report. In the beginning, with a cluster from three servers, we could easily count 1 billion uniques per day in \~ 12 slices. There are nuances; large slices cannot be output to the interface since simultaneous scanning of large tables will take a lot of CPU time. The solution to this problem was the report generation service, which has its internal queue and sends the already generated CSV files to the interface. On the other hand, we can output small slices to the interface with a limited date range.

ClickHouse was perfect as Big Data Storage for our ML models.

## **Advice To Others Who Might Be Considering ClickHouse** [\#](/blog/admixer-aggregates-over-1-billion-unique-users-a-day-using-clickhouse#advice-to-others-who-might-be-considering-clickhouse-)

The Devil is in the details!

ClickHouse technical tips:
