---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/en/2021/clickhouse-v21.11-released/#async-inserts
topic: admixer-aggregates-over-1-billion-unique-users-a-day-using-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '21.11'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

to the interface with a limited date range. ClickHouse was perfect as Big Data Storage for our ML models. ## **Advice To Others Who Might Be Considering ClickHouse** [\#](/blog/admixer-aggregates-over-1-billion-unique-users-a-day-using-clickhouse#advice-to-others-who-might-be-considering-clickhouse-) The Devil is in the details! ClickHouse technical tips:

- If you do not need high data accuracy, use HyperLogLog and sampling;
- Run load tests to determine the number of operations that your cluster can withstand given your data structure before assembling the cluster;
- Buffer is a great way to insert data, but watch out for memory;
- Use Native format for insert;
- Avoid large numbers of small parts for continuous flow insertion. Too many tables generate a lot of merges in the background such as the Too many parts (300\) error;
- It is necessary to decide on the replication scheme at the beginning. One option is to use ZooKeeper and let tables replicate themselves using ReplicatedMergeTree and other replicating table engines. Because we had many tables and we wanted to choose what parts of the data to replicate to which servers we chose to not use ZooKeeper and have our client spread the writes – each write goes to two servers.

Over the past five years, the Admixer’s Core team has been working with a high\-load and aggregation of big data. Any work has its subtleties, do not step on your rake. Use ours.

We offer customers specialized audit, consultation, or create ready\-made solutions using ClickHouse to solve high\-load tasks. These speciality services are now offered via our new initiative [LoadFighters](https://loadfighters.com/).

## **About Admixer** [\#](/blog/admixer-aggregates-over-1-billion-unique-users-a-day-using-clickhouse#about-admixer-)

Admixer is an independent adtech company that develops an ecosystem of full\-stack programmatic solutions. Admixer has its own line of adtech products for brands, ad agencies, media houses, publishers, ad networks, and other buy\- and sell\-side industry players looking for effective ad management. Our customizable technology, in\-depth expertise, and a personal approach help businesses turn programmatic advertising into a scalable revenue channel.

Since their start in 2008, we’ve been on a mission to build an ecosystem with effective and transparent relationships between all of the players in the digital advertising industry.

Today, the company has over 100 supply and demand partners, 3,000\+ customers, and 200\+ employees worldwide. They run offices in Ukraine, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Moldova, Georgia, and legal entities in the UK and Germany.
