---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/41195>
topic: two-columns-indexing-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# Two columns indexing \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Schema design](/altinity-kb-schema-design/)
2. Two columns indexing
# Two columns indexing

How to create ORDER BY suitable for filtering over two different columns in two different queriesSuppose we have telecom CDR data in which A party calls B party. Each data row consists of A party details: event\_timestamp, A MSISDN , A IMEI, A IMSI , A start location, A end location , B MSISDN, B IMEI, B IMSI , B start location, B end location, and some other metadata.

Searches will use one of the A or B fields, for example, A IMSI, within the start and end time window.

A msisdn, A imsi, A imei values are tightly coupled as users rarely change their phones.

The queries will be:

```
select * from X where A = '0123456789' and ts between ...;
select * from X where B = '0123456789' and ts between ...;

```
and both A \& B are high\-cardinality values

ClickHouse® primary skip index (ORDER BY/PRIMARY KEY) works great when you always include leading ORDER BY columns in the WHERE filter. There are exceptions for low\-cardinality columns and high\-correlated values, but here is another case. A \& B both have high cardinality, and it seems that their correlation is at a medium level.

Various solutions exist, and their effectiveness largely depends on the correlation of different column data. Testing all solutions on actual data is necessary to select the best one.

### ORDER BY \+ additional Skip Index

```
create table X (
    A UInt32,
    B UInt32,
    ts DateTime,
    ....
    INDEX ix_B (B) type minmax GRANULARITY 3
) engine = MergeTree
partition by toYYYYMM(ts)
order by (toStartOfDay(ts),A,B);

```
bloom\_filter index type instead of min\_max could work fine in some situations.

### Inverted index as a projection
