---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/best-open-source-observability-solutions
topic: cost-predictable-logging-at-scale-with-clickhouse-grafana-warpstream
ch_version_introduced: '54.36'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

our sample data): compressing this down to under 100GiB. A fully parallelized query execution engine, coupled with low\-level optimizations, ensures query performance remains under 1s for most typical SRE queries on these volumes as demonstrated by our benchmark.

With compression rates of up to 14x in our benchmarks, this cluster (which allows up to 1TiB of compressed data) can potentially store up to 14 TiB of uncompressed log data. Users can either use this spare capacity to increase storage density even further if query performance is less critical or, alternatively, just use it to simply retain data for longer. We show the savings are dramatic in comparison to other solutions, such as Elastic and [Datadog](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/datadog-alternatives/), which are between 23x and 42x more expensive for the same data volume.

While ClickHouse can be used standalone as a log storage engine, we appreciate users often prefer an architecture in which data is first buffered in Kafka prior to its insertion into ClickHouse. This provides a number of benefits, principally the ability to absorb spikes in traffic whilst keeping the insertion load on ClickHouse constant and allowing data to be forwarded to other downstream systems. Looking to keep costs and operations as low as possible in our proposed architecture, we consider a Kafka implementation that also separates storage and compute: WarpStream. We combine this with our standard recommendations of OTEL for log collection and Grafana for visualization—key components for **[mastering Kubernetes observability](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/mastering-kubernetes-observability-guide)**.

## Why ClickHouse? [\#](/blog/cost-predictable-logging-with-clickhouse-vs-datadog-elastic-stack#why-clickhouse)

As a high\-performance OLAP database, ClickHouse is used for many use cases, including real\-time analytics for [time series](https://clickhouse.com/blog/working-with-time-series-data-and-functions-ClickHouse) data. Its diversity of use cases has helped drive a huge range of [analytical functions](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/), which assist in querying most data types. These query features and very high compression rates, resulting from the column\-oriented design and customizable codecs, have increasingly led users to choose ClickHouse as a log data store. By separating storage and compute, and utilizing object storage as its principal data store, ClickHouse Cloud further increases this cost efficiency, a key architectural choice for teams looking to [regain control of their observability TCO](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/observability-tco-cost-reduction).
