---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/best-open-source-observability-solutions
topic: cost-predictable-logging-at-scale-with-clickhouse-grafana-warpstream
ch_version_introduced: '54.36'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

scale workloads up to GiB/s of data. These properties make WarpStream ideal for a logging solution where throughput volumes are often significant and price sensitivity is critical, and delivery latencies of a few seconds are more than acceptable.

For users looking to deploy a WarpStream for testing, you can follow [these instructions](https://github.com/warpstreamlabs/warpstream-fly-io-template) to deploy a test cluster to Fly.io or [these instructions](https://railway.app/template/30Xa3Y?referralCode=kKBYG0) to deploy on Railway.

## ClickHouse Cloud Development tier [\#](/blog/cost-predictable-logging-with-clickhouse-vs-datadog-elastic-stack#clickhouse-cloud-development-tier)

ClickHouse Cloud allows users to deploy ClickHouse with a separation of storage and compute. While users can control the CPU and memory assigned to a service for production tiers or allow it to automatically scale dynamically, the Development tier offers the ideal solution for our cost\-efficient logging store. With a recommended limit of 1TiB for storage and compute limited to 4 CPUs and 16 GiB of memory, this instance type cannot exceed $193/month (assuming all 1TiB is used). For other use cases, the cost is typically lower than this due to the ability of the service to idle when not used. We assume the continuous nature of log ingestion means this isn’t viable. Despite this, this service is ideal for log storage for users needing to store up to 14TiB of raw log data, given the expected 14x compression ratio achieved by ClickHouse.

Note that the Development tier uses a reduced number of replica nodes to production instead \- 2 instead of 3\. This level of availability is also sufficient for Logging use cases where a replication factor of 2 is often sufficient to meet SLA requirements. Finally, the limited storage of TiB of compressed data allows a simple costing model to be developed, which we present below.

## Example dataset [\#](/blog/cost-predictable-logging-with-clickhouse-vs-datadog-elastic-stack#example-dataset)

In order to benchmark a Development tier instance in ClickHouse Cloud for the logging use case, we require a representative dataset. For this, we use a publicly available [Web Server Access Log dataset](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/eliasdabbas/web-server-access-logs/). While the schema of this dataset is simple, it is equivalent to commonly held nginx and Apache logs.
