---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/best-open-source-observability-solutions
topic: cost-predictable-logging-at-scale-with-clickhouse-grafana-warpstream
ch_version_introduced: '54.36'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

the usual SRE workflow. However, even if these queries are rare, we can take measures to improve their performance using Clickhouse features. We explore these in the context of this larger dataset below. ### Improving query performance [\#](/blog/cost-predictable-logging-with-clickhouse-vs-datadog-elastic-stack#improving-query-performance)

The above results show the performance of most of our dashboard queries to be, on average, below a few seconds. Our “zoom\-out” query, where our SRE attempts to identify trends over a full month, takes up to 50 seconds. While this is not a complete linear scan, as we are still applying filters, this particular query is CPU\-bound, with each of the two nodes in our Development service having only two cores. By default, queries are only executed on the receiving node for the query. These queries will, therefore, benefit from distributing computation across all nodes in the cluster, allowing four cores to be assigned to the aggregation.

In ClickHouse Cloud, this can be achieved by using parallel replicas. This feature allows the work for an aggregation query to be spread across all nodes in the cluster, reading from the same single shard. This feature, while experimental, is already in use for some workloads in ClickHouse Cloud and is expected to be generally available soon.

Below, we show the results when parallel replicas are enabled to use the full cluster resources for all queries issued as part of the final zoom\-out step. The results here are for the largest dataset of 1\.5TiB. Full results can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/simple-logging-benchmark/blob/main/results/parallel_replicas.md).
