---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/best-open-source-observability-solutions
topic: cost-predictable-logging-at-scale-with-clickhouse-grafana-warpstream
ch_version_introduced: '54.36'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

of data and 14TiB of uncompressed logs. This still only costs $190 per month. Due to the low cost of object storage, this is only $32 more than storing our largest 1\.5TiB uncompressed test case! ### WarpStream [\#](/blog/cost-predictable-logging-with-clickhouse-vs-datadog-elastic-stack#warpstream)

The pricing exercise for WarpStream is simpler, with no complex queries to run. In this scenario, WarpStream acts as a cost\-efficient and scalable buffer. We assume a significantly lower compression ratio of 4x over the wire since the data is not organized in a columnar fashion, and clients may be producing or consuming small batches, depending on their configuration. Finally, we’ll also assume 48 hours of retention is sufficient since WarpStream is just acting as a temporary buffer in front of ClickHouse and not the final destination. The costs for the full 14TiB are presented below.

| Uncompressed Size (GiB) | Throughput MiB/s | Compute cost for agent($) | Storage cost (2 days) ($) | S3 API Costs | Total Cost per month ($) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 18\.98 | 1\.8Kib/s | $21\.4 | $0\.007 | $58 | $80 |
| 37\.96 | 3\.6KiB/s | $21\.4 | $0\.014 | $58 | $80 |
| 75\.92 | 7KiB/s | $21\.4 | $0\.028 | $58 | $80 |
| 151\.84 | 14KiB/s | $21\.4 | $0\.057 | $58 | $80 |
| 303\.67 | 29KiB/s | $21\.4 | $0\.116 | $58 | $80 |
| 1515\.52 | 146KiB/s | $21\.4 | $0\.58 | $58 | $80 |
| 14336 | 1\.38 MiB/s | $21\.4 | $5\.49 | $58 | $85 |



> Above uses a Fly.io 2x shared\-cpu\-1x with 2GiB of RAM

Note that the WarpStream compute and S3 API costs are relatively “fixed” costs, with the workload size able to grow a further 5\-10x without either of those costs increasing. This is because we need to run at least two Agents for high availability. However, even the two small Agents in this setup can easily tolerate a write volume of 10\-20MiB/s, more than one order of magnitude than the highest row. The compute costs thus remain fixed.
