---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/best-open-source-observability-solutions
topic: cost-predictable-logging-at-scale-with-clickhouse-grafana-warpstream
ch_version_introduced: '54.36'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 15
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

two Agents for high availability. However, even the two small Agents in this setup can easily tolerate a write volume of 10\-20MiB/s, more than one order of magnitude than the highest row. The compute costs thus remain fixed.

In addition, the S3 API costs are also mostly fixed since the Agents have to generate one file every 250 ms irrespective of the load. However, as the write volume increases, so does batching, and the cost remains fixed until the total write throughput of the workload exceeds the maximum ingestion file size of 8MiB.

### Summary [\#](/blog/cost-predictable-logging-with-clickhouse-vs-datadog-elastic-stack#summary)

Below we present the total costs per month for a CGW stack for various log volumes.

| Uncompressed size (GiB) | WarpStream cost per month ($) | ClickHouse cost per month ($) | Total cost ($) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 18\.98 | 80 | 155\.57 | 235\.57 |
| 37\.96 | 80 | 155\.62 | 235\.62 |
| 75\.92 | 80 | 155\.71 | 235\.71 |
| 151\.84 | 80 | 155\.89 | 235\.89 |
| 303\.67 | 80 | 156\.24 | 236\.89 |
| 1515\.52 | 80 | 158\.74 | 238\.74 |
| 14336 | 85\.43 | 190\.85 | 276\.28 |


The above does not include the cost for the OTEL collectors (or equivalent), which we assume will be run on the edge and represent a negligible overhead.

## Cost comparisons [\#](/blog/cost-predictable-logging-with-clickhouse-vs-datadog-elastic-stack#cost-comparisons)

To give some relative comparison elements, we decided to compare the costs of our CGW stack against two leading solutions in the logging space, namely Datadog and Elastic Cloud.

The reader should remember that we are not performing an exact apples\-to\-apples comparison here as both Elastic and Datadog provide a comprehensive logging user experience beyond the main storage/querying feature. On the other hand, both alternative solutions presented do not include a Kafka or Kafka\-compatible queuing mechanism.

However, from a functional standpoint, the main objective is the same, and the CGW is a valid alternative for the core logging use case. We display the cost differences in the table below, based on the data from the publicly available pricing calculators and the following hypotheses:
