---
source: blog
url: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/c-query-performance.html
topic: optimizing-analytical-workloads-comparing-redshift-vs-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.0005'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 30
---

2.74 GB/s.) ``` We repeated this exercise for each of the tables, recording the timings below. Using this method, we were able to transfer \~1TB and 8\.3 billion rows from Redshift to ClickHouse in less than 35 minutes.

| **Table** | **Rows** | **Data Size (Parquet)** | **Redshift Export** | **ClickHouse Import** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| blocks | 16629116 | 10\.9GiB | 4\.9s | 14\.28 s |
| contracts | 57394746 | 16\.0 GiB | 2m 43\.9s | 21\.24 s |
| transactions | 1874052391 | 252\.4 GiB | 4m 40s | 5 mins, 15 s |
| traces | 6377694114 | 710\.1 GiB | 5m 36\.1s | 15 mins 34 s |
| **Total** | **8\.32 billion** | **990GB** | **13m 5secs** | **21m 25s** |


  

## Handling New Data [\#](/blog/redshift-vs-clickhouse-comparison#handling-new-data)

The above approach works well for bulk\-loading data static datasets or the historical data of a dynamic corpus. However, it does not address cases where Redshift tables are receiving new data continuously, which needs to be exported to ClickHouse.

### Assumptions [\#](/blog/redshift-vs-clickhouse-comparison#assumptions)

For the remainder of this blog, we assume that:

- Data is append\-only and immutable. There is no requirement to selectively update rows, though dropping older data is expected and described below.
- Either a time dimension or an incrementing numeric identifier exists on the data that allows new rows for copying to ClickHouse to be identified.

These assumptions are consistent with requirements for real\-time analytical datasets we commonly see migrating to ClickHouse. For example, when users choose to keep data in sync between Redshift and ClickHouse, they typically synchronize the most recent dataset based on a time dimension. Our example dataset inherently satisfies these properties, and we use the block timestamp for synchronization purposes.

### Scheduling Exports [\#](/blog/redshift-vs-clickhouse-comparison#scheduling-exports)
