---
source: blog
url: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/redshift/latest/dg/c-query-performance.html
topic: optimizing-analytical-workloads-comparing-redshift-vs-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.0005'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 29
total_chunks_in_doc: 30
---

et.block_timestamp >= '2022-09-29' ) SELECT (eth_supply * 1577.88) / 1e9 AS eth_mcap FROM eth_supply; ERROR: Numeric data overflow (addition) DETAIL: ----------------------------------------------- error: Numeric data overflow (addition) code: 1058 context: query: 4602282 location: numeric_bound.cpp:180 process: query10_500_4602282 [pid=31250] ----------------------------------------------- ```

On our 60 core ClickHouse Cloud node, this query runs in 3\.2secs.

```
WITH eth_supply AS
    (
        SELECT (120529053 - (SUM(eb.base_fee_per_gas * et.receipt_gas_used) / 1000000000000000000.)) + ((COUNT(eb.number) * 1600) / (((24 * 60) * 60) / 12)) AS eth_supply
        FROM transactions AS et
        INNER JOIN blocks AS eb ON eb.number = et.block_number
        WHERE et.block_timestamp >= '2022-09-29'
    )
SELECT (eth_supply * 1577.88) / 1000000000. AS eth_mcap
FROM eth_supply
┌───────────eth_mcap─┐
│ 251.42266710943835 │
└────────────────────┘

1 row in set. Elapsed: 3.220 sec. Processed 191.48 million rows, 2.30 GB (59.47 million rows/s., 713.69 MB/s.)

```

This value is consistent with that [computed by dune.com](https://dune.com/queries/662981/1231386). A full set of example queries can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/examples/tree/main/ethereum/queries). We welcome contributions!

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/redshift-vs-clickhouse-comparison#conclusion)

In this blog post, we have explored how data can be moved to ClickHouse from Redshift to accelerate queries for real\-time analytics. We have shown a number of approaches to loading data and keeping it in sync, and how to leverage ClickHouse for real\-time analytics on top of this data. In later posts, we’ll explore this Ethereum dataset in more detail.

In the meantime, we have made this dataset available in a public ClickHouse deployment for exploration ([sql.clickhouse.com](https://crypto.clickhouse.com?query=U0hPVyBUYWJsZXMgZnJvbSBldGhlcmV1bQ&)) and gcs bucket `gs://clickhouse_public_datasets/ethereum`. You are welcome to try it by [downloading a free open\-source version](https://clickhouse.com/clickhouse#getting_started) of ClickHouse and deploying it yourself or spinning up a [ClickHouse Cloud free trial](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp). ClickHouse Cloud is a fully\-managed serverless offering based on ClickHouse, where you can start building real\-time applications with ease without having to worry about deploying and managing infrastructure.

## Resources [\#](/blog/redshift-vs-clickhouse-comparison#resources)

We recommend the following resources with respect to Ethereum and querying this dataset.
