---
source: blog
url: https://survey.stackoverflow.co/2024/technology#most-popular-technologies-database-prof
topic: clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

data capture capabilities will greatly simplify our data processing workflows. This integration will enable us to build analytical applications faster, giving us a competitive edge in the market.” ## What does it mean for the PeerDB project? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#what-does-it-mean-for-the-peerdb-project)

The [PeerDB](https://github.com/PeerDB-io/peerdb) project remains under ELv2 license and open to contributions. Furthermore, we are thrilled to announce that we are also releasing [PeerDB Enterprise](https://github.com/PeerDB-io/peerdb-enterprise), currently a commercial, proprietary product featuring production\-grade Helm charts, under the same free and open ELv2 license. This allows any PeerDB user to easily run self\-managed production\-grade CDC workloads with PeerDB going forward.

## What does it mean for the PeerDB Cloud offering? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#what-does-it-mean-for-the-peerdb-cloud-offering)

ClickHouse Cloud already comes with its very own dedicated data ingestion platform, aka ClickPipes. ClickPipes is an integration engine that simplifies data ingestion from a variety of sources, including Apache Kafka, Amazon S3, and Google Cloud Storage. As of today, ClickPipes has already been used to reliably and efficiently move more than 1 trillion rows to ClickHouse Cloud.

By joining forces with PeerDB, we’ll add a new connector to enable the Postgres CDC use\-case in ClickPipes, powered by PeerDB. This will be fully integrated into the ClickHouse Cloud experience and will benefit from the same foundations in terms of scalability, monitoring, and infrastructure.

We understand that data\-engineering changes can take time to implement. For this reason, we decided to set the end\-of\-life (EOL) of PeerDB Cloud for existing paid customers using non\-ClickHouse Cloud connectors to be one year from now, i.e. July 30th, 2025\. This is to ensure that organizations that bet on PeerDB technology early on and helped make it a success have sufficient time to plan for an orderly transition. Customers will receive the same support and SLAs as promised in their contracts, and we will assist them with personalized transition plans when needed.

## I want to set up Postgres CDC to ClickHouse Cloud, do I need to wait for the Postgres CDC for ClickPipes to be available? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#i-want-to-set-up-postgres-cdc-to-clickhouse-cloud-do-i-need-to-wait-for-the-postgres-cdc-for-clickpipes-to-be-available)

No, you can already sign up to the PeerDB Cloud offering as of today and connect your Postgres database to ClickHouse Cloud. We plan to continue offering this service on its existing terms for users who want to start onboarding straight away. This includes a one\-month free trial.
