---
source: blog
url: https://doc.chdb.io/#/
topic: chdb-joins-the-clickhouse-family
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

as well as a subsequent [introductory blog post about chDB](https://clickhouse.com/blog/welcome-chdb-to-clickhouse) in August 2023\. A few weeks later Auxten wrote [chDB \- A Rocket Engine on a Bicycle](https://clickhouse.com/blog/chdb-embedded-clickhouse-rocket-engine-on-a-bicycle), in which he went through chDB’s design decisions and implementation details

In the months since then, [we’ve seen more interest in chDB](https://clickpy.clickhouse.com/dashboard/chdb), have been working closely with Auxten, and gradually saw an opportunity to take our collaboration to the next level.

## What does the news mean if I’m a chDB user? [\#](/blog/chdb-joins-clickhouse-family#what-does-the-news-mean-if-im-a-chdb-user)

If you’re an existing user of chDB, this is great news for you. Auxten will now be working full\-time on chDB rather than only in his spare time. This means we’ll be able to fix bugs/issues more quickly as well as adding new features and integrations.

chDB will soon be integrated into ClickHouse’s continuous integration pipeline, which will allow us to have chDB closely follow the release schedule of ClickHouse.

We’ll be moving the chdB documentation to live alongside the ClickHouse documentation and will make chDB more prominent in our getting started guides.

We’ll also be looking at ways that we can better integrate chDB with the rest of the data engineering ecosystem, so let us know if you have any opinions about where we should start!

## What happens next? [\#](/blog/chdb-joins-clickhouse-family#what-happens-next)

Our goal is to create a seamless experience whether you’re analyzing Parquet files on your laptop, creating data pipelines with other tools in the Python ecosystem, or building a real\-time data warehouse to serve data products to your users.

We want to get to the point where it takes minimal effort to switch between the different flavors of ClickHouse.

We don’t know exactly what this will look like and we’d like your help figuring this out. Below are some of the things at the top of our todo list for what to do next:

1. Better performance, especially on Pandas DataFrame and Arrow Buffer
2. Keep up with latest ClickHouse release
3. Better integration with more programming languages and data sources

But maybe you have better ideas! We’d love to hear your thoughts on the [chDB Github Discussions](https://github.com/orgs/chdb-io/discussions).

## Get started with chDB today [\#](/blog/chdb-joins-clickhouse-family#get-started-with-chdb-today)
