---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/benchmark/hardware/
topic: clickhouse-22-3-lts-released
ch_version_introduced: '2.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

As of release 22\.3 ClickHouse Keeper is production ready! In fact, it is already being used in production for more than half a year, so you will not be the first production user. ## **ARM Architecture Support** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-3-lts-released#arm-architecture-support)

64bit ARM CPU architecture (AArch64\) has become increasingly popular for server applications in the cloud, as well as for laptops and workstations. Ever considered ClickHouse on network devices and mobile? You know what? ClickHouse runs on all of them and squeezes every bit of performance out of them.

We started porting ClickHouse to AArch64 in Feb 2016, and since that time we have checked 13 different CPU models: APM X\-Gene; Cavium ThunderX 1, 2; Raspberry Pi; Pinebook; Google Pixel; Apple M1, M1 Max; Huawei Taishan; AWS Graviton 1, 2, 3; Ampere Altra. There is a huge diversity among ARM CPU manufacturers and we are happy to support it. We also maintain the collection of [comparative benchmarks of different hardware](https://clickhouse.com/benchmark/hardware/).

Release 22\.3 has two major milestones for AArch64 support:

1. Continuous integration with 100% functional tests passing.
2. Full support for release builds: deb, rpm, apk, tgz, single\-binary and Docker.

This has been made possible by work of **Mikhail Shiryaev**. Since the release 22\.3 ClickHouse on AArch64 is production ready!

ClickHouse has more specific optimizations for x86\_64 instruction set architecture and only a couple AArch64\-specific optimizations, and even despite this fact, it gives better price/performance on AArch64 in the major cloud providers.

Some x86\-specific features are disabled on AArch64: support for Hyperscan, support for hardware metrics from [PMU](https://perfmon-events.intel.com/). Some features are not included in the build, like GRPC API support. Running mixed architecture clusters is not recommended, although there are no known issues as of now.

What to expect next? We have ongoing development for PowerPC 64 little\-endian and for RISC\-V 64\. If you are interested in some other CPU architecture, please let us know.

## **Virtual Filesystem Over S3** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-3-lts-released#virtual-filesystem-over-s3)

Experimental support for VFS over S3 exists for around two years. This is the story:
