---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/benchmark/hardware/
topic: clickhouse-22-3-lts-released
ch_version_introduced: '2.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

and for RISC\-V 64\. If you are interested in some other CPU architecture, please let us know. ## **Virtual Filesystem Over S3** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-3-lts-released#virtual-filesystem-over-s3) Experimental support for VFS over S3 exists for around two years. This is the story:

- s3 functions for data import and export by **Vladimir Chebotarev**
- disks, volumes and storage policies by **Igor Mineev** and **Alexander Sapin**
- automatic and user\-triggered movement of data parts between disks by **Vladimir Chebotarev**
- virtual file system interface by **Alexander Burmak**
- implementation of VFS over s3 by **Pavel Kovalenko**, **Grigory Pervakov** and **Anton Ivashkin**
- asynchronous reads by **Alexey Milovidov**, **Kseniia Sumarokova** and **Alexander Sapin**
- full functional test coverage, correctness and reliability by **Alexander Sapin**

As of 22\.3 we ensure maximum query performance on top of s3 and continuous testing for every commit. Support for MergeTree and ReplicatedMergeTree operation over s3 is ready for production.

Although some new features are not production ready: “zero\-copy replication” (ensure one copy of data if there are more than one replica in a region) and the local cache. Testing has been performed for AWS S3 and Minio. There are known issues on GCP.

## **Secure Build Infrastructure** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-3-lts-released#secure-build-infrastructure)

For previous versions we have used servers in Yandex Cloud. Since release 22\.3 we have migrated our infrastructure to different locations.

Continuous integration and testing moved to AWS data centers in the US. We also have released all the build and test runners in [open\-source](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/.github/workflows). The build process has been made [reproducible](https://reproducible-builds.org/). You can run the build by yourself and get the binaries that are byte\-identical and indistinguishable to the official binaries. The build process is hermetic and does not depend on the OS distribution and the environment. The final release builds are stored in [JFrog Artifactory](https://www.jfrog.com/), and available on [packages.clickhouse.com](https://packages.clickhouse.com/).

The work has been done by **Mikhail Shiryaev**, **Alexander Sapin** and **Alexey Milovidov**.

Please read the [motivation for these changes](https://clickhouse.com/blog/we-stand-with-ukraine/).

## **Security Features** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-3-lts-released#security-features)

Authentication with X.509 client certificates has been contributed by **Eungenue**. And two features contributed by **Heena Bansal**: a switch to disable plaintext password or no password for users; filtering outgoing connections in MySQL, PostgreSQL federated queries.

## **More Testing And Fuzzing** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-3-lts-released#more-testing-and-fuzzing)
