---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/benchmark/hardware/
topic: clickhouse-22-3-lts-released
ch_version_introduced: '2.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

certificates has been contributed by **Eungenue**. And two features contributed by **Heena Bansal**: a switch to disable plaintext password or no password for users; filtering outgoing connections in MySQL, PostgreSQL federated queries. ## **More Testing And Fuzzing** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-3-lts-released#more-testing-and-fuzzing)

We believe [fuzzing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fuzzing) is the absolute need to build reliable software. And the main principle of fuzzing is: there should be more fuzzing. So, we have many fuzzing methods in ClickHouse CI: LLVM’s libFuzzer, AST based query fuzzer, Ad\-hoc SQL function fuzzer, Randomization of thread scheduling order, Randomization of timezones, SQLancer (logical fuzzer), Stress tests, and Jepsen tests.

But this is not enough.

Since version 22\.3 we have added *randomization of query settings in functional tests*. So, we can run the tests under every combination of different settings.

We have also added automated tests for backward compatibility. It is trying to create every possible database, table and dictionary, then install the previous ClickHouse version and check if it will startup successfully. This allows us to be aware if a new feature will prevent version downgrade.

We are so keen on testing that we decided to add automated tests for tests. Whenever someone contributes a bugfix we automatically check that it contains tests and these tests fail on previous ClickHouse versions.

## **Semistructured Data** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-3-lts-released#semistructured-data)

Okay, I spent 15 minutes of your time telling about security, reliability, compliance, transparency… but where is **the fun**?

In version 22\.3 we have a new experimental feature — support for dynamic subcolumns and semistructured data!

Suppose you have a bunch of JSON and want to analyze it — without specifying the data types in your table. And you want your table to automatically adapt for the schema changes, to automatically add new columns. And everything with hierarchical objects and arrays with deep nesting! Now it is possible and it works like magic.

Let me demonstrate it with an example using GitHub API.

I obtained the list of GitHub repositories ordered by the number of stars from [GH Explorer](https://ghe.clickhouse.tech/). Then I started querying the metadata of the most popular repositories from GitHub API with the following script:
