---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/clickhouse-query-optimisation-definitive-guide?utm_medium=clickhouse&utm_source=blog&ref=clickhouse-faster-queries-with-projections-and-primary-indexes
topic: super-charging-your-clickhouse-queries
ch_version_introduced: '0.044'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 12
---

│ GREATER LONDON │ 594300000 │ │ GREATER LONDON │ 569200000 │ │ GREATER LONDON │ 448500000 │ └────────────────┴───────────┘ 3 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.036 sec. Processed 27.64 million rows, 40.00 MB (765.42 million rows/s., 1.11 GB/s.) ```

With 20 threads, the query runs about double as fast, but note that this increases the amount of peak memory that will be consumed by the query execution because more data will be streamed in parallel into ClickHouse.

We check the memory consumption for both query runs by inspecting the [system.query\_log](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/system-tables/query_log/) table:

```

SELECT
    query,
    query_duration_ms::String || ' ms' as query_duration,
    formatReadableSize(memory_usage) as memory_usage,
    formatReadableQuantity(read_rows) AS read_rows,
    formatReadableSize(read_bytes) as read_data
FROM clusterAllReplicas(default, system.query_log)
WHERE type = 'QueryFinish' AND tables = ['default.uk_price_paid']
ORDER BY initial_query_start_time DESC
LIMIT 2
FORMAT Vertical

Row 1:
──────
query:          SELECT
                  county,
                  price
                FROM uk_price_paid
                WHERE town = 'LONDON'
                ORDER BY price DESC
                LIMIT 3
                SETTINGS max_threads = 20
query_duration: 35 ms
memory_usage:   49.49 MiB
read_rows:      27.64 million
read_data:      38.15 MiB

Row 2:
──────
query:          SELECT
                  county,
                  price
                FROM uk_price_paid
                WHERE town = 'LONDON'
                ORDER BY price DESC
                LIMIT 3
query_duration: 69 ms
memory_usage:   31.01 MiB
read_rows:      27.64 million
read_data:      38.65 MiB

2 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.026 sec. Processed 64.00 thousand rows, 5.98 MB (2.46 million rows/s., 230.17 MB/s.)


```

With 20 threads, the query consumes about 40% more peak main memory than the same query run with 4 threads.

Note that with high `max_threads` settings resource contention and context switches can become a bottleneck, increasing the max\_threads setting, therefore, doesn’t scale linearly.

## Summary [\#](/blog/clickhouse-faster-queries-with-projections-and-primary-indexes#summary)

The ClickHouse query processing architecture is optimized for real\-time analytics and comes with default settings that make query processing fast.

You can optimize performance for specific queries by applying the techniques described above:

- Choose a row order / primary key that includes the fields that you filter on
- Add projections for multiple row orders and incremental aggregation
- Increase the level of query processing parallelism

This will minimize the amount of data streamed from disk into the query processing engine and speed up streaming and processing of that data.

Share this postCopy URLShare on Y CombinatorShare on TwitterShare on BlueSkyShare on FacebookShare on LinkedIn### Subscribe to our newsletter

Stay informed on feature releases, product roadmap, support, and cloud offerings!Loading form...## Recent posts
