---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/lazy-materialization.mdx)#
topic: lazy-materialization-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '219.071'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

what if some columns aren’t needed until later, or some data, despite passing the `WHERE` clause, is never needed at all? That’s where lazy materialization comes in. It is an orthogonal enhancement that completes the I/O optimization stack:

- Indexing, together with `PREWHERE`, ensures that only rows matching column filters in the `WHERE` clause are processed.
- Lazy materialization builds on this by deferring column reads until they’re actually required by the query execution plan.
Even after filtering, only the columns needed for the next operation \- such as sorting \- are loaded immediately.
Others are postponed and, due to `LIMIT`, are often read only partially, just enough to produce the final result.
This makes lazy materialization especially powerful for Top N queries, where the final result may only require a handful of rows from certain, often large, columns.

## A worked example[​](#worked-example "Direct link to A worked example")

We highly recommend the blogpost ["ClickHouse gets lazier (and faster): Introducing lazy materialization"](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization#speed-without-filters-lazy-materialization-in-isolation)
for a deep dive on lazy materialization. The example below is taken from the aforementioned blogpost and reproduced here to demonstrate how a ClickHouse query can go from 219 seconds to just 139 milliseconds (a 1576× speedup) with lazy materialization.

To benefit from indexing and `PREWHERE`, a query needs filters, on primary key columns for indexing, and on any columns for `PREWHERE`.
Lazy materialization layers cleanly on top, but unlike the other optimizations mentioned previously, it can also speed up queries with no column filters at all.

Consider the following example query which finds Amazon reviews with the highest number of helpful votes, regardless of date, product, rating, or verification status, and returns the top 3 along with their title, headline, and full text.

First running the query (with cold filesystem caches) with lazy materialization disabled (using [`query_plan_optimize_lazy_materialization`](/docs/operations/settings/settings#query_plan_optimize_lazy_materialization)):

```
SELECT
    helpful_votes,
    product_title,
    review_headline,
    review_body
FROM amazon.amazon_reviews
ORDER BY helpful_votes DESC
LIMIT 3
FORMAT Vertical
SETTINGS
    query_plan_optimize_lazy_materialization = false;

```
