---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/full-text-search-ga-release).*
topic: building-high-performance-full-text-search-for-object-storage
ch_version_introduced: '13.501'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

= removeDiacriticsUTF8(caseFoldUTF8(col)) Input: 'Héllo Wörld ÑOÑO Ångström' Preprocessed: 'hello world nono angstrom' ``` ``` With preprocessing in place, we now look at tokenization, which defines how the input text is split into tokens for indexing. #### Tokenization [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search-object-storage#tokenization)

This is the final piece of the puzzle, the tokenizer specifies how the column rows should be split into tokens. This is a critical decision because it will affect which queries match the index and which don’t. For example, an index that splits the data by whitespace will not match parts of words (e.g. ‘caf’ will not match ‘cafe’) but an index using the ngram tokenizer with an ngram length of 3 **will** match ‘caf’ to ‘cafe’.

There are a few broad types of tokenizers:

##### splitBy tokenizers [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search-object-storage#splitby-tokenizers)

The ‘splitByNonAlpha’ and ‘splitByString’ tokenizers, as their names suggest, split the input by non\-alphanumeric characters or custom separators. This is useful for most natural language text such as product reviews, or for splitting domain\-specific strings with consistent delimiters.

Examples:

```

```
-- splitByNonAlpha
‘hello my1!!!name&is,234234’ -> [‘hello’, ‘my1’, ‘name’, ‘is’, ‘234234’]

-- splitByString with default ' ' separator
'hello my name is John' -> ['hello', 'my', 'name', 'is', 'John']

-- splitByString with custom separators [', ', '; ', '\n']
'apples, oranges; bananas\npears' -> ['apples', 'oranges', 'bananas', 'pears']

-- splitting csv data (custom separator ',')
'hello,world,foo,bar' -> ['hello', 'world', 'foo', 'bar']
```


```

##### \*\-gram tokenizers [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search-object-storage#-gram-tokenizers)

The ‘ngrams’ and ‘sparseGrams’ tokenizers split strings into constant\-length and variable\-length tokens, respectively. The ngram length for the ‘ngrams’ tokenizer can be specified using an optional integer parameter between 1 and 8, for example, tokenizer \= ngrams(3\). The default ngram size, if not specified explicitly, is 3\. The sparseGrams function uses a special algorithm to output variable\-length ngrams controlled by the min\_ngram\_length and max\_ngram\_length parameters, see the [sparseGrams function documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/functions/string-functions#sparseGrams) for more information.

Examples:

```

```
-- ngrams (default size 3)
'hello' -> ['hel', 'ell', 'llo']

-- ngrams (size 4)
'hello' -> ['hell', 'ello']

-- sparseGrams (default min_length=3, max_length=100)
'hello' -> ['hel', 'hell', 'hello', 'ell', 'ello', 'llo']
```


```

##### Other tokenizers [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search-object-storage#other-tokenizers)

The `array` tokenizer performs no tokenization, i.e. every row value is treated as a token (see function [array](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/functions/array-functions#array)).

```

```
'hello my name is John' -> ['hello my name is John']
```


```
