---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year
topic: the-evolution-of-clickhouse-cloud-new-features-superior-performance-and-tailored-offerings
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

on synthetic and real\-world workloads, and carefully upgrade our user base, rolling back at any sign of degradation. With this rollout, we applied the "make before break" (or MBB) approach to upgrades, further reducing impact to running workloads.

### More deployment factors [\#](/blog/evolution-of-clickhouse-cloud-new-features-superior-performance-tailored-offerings#more-deployment-factors)

We are introducing the concept of a "single\-replica service", both as a standalone offering and within warehouses. As a standalone offering, single\-replica services are size limited and intended to be used for small test workloads. This is an exciting development for developers looking for an even more cost\-effective way to test out new ideas, and we are basing our new Basic tier on this concept.

Within warehouses, single\-replica services can be deployed at larger sizes, and utilized for workloads not requiring high availability at scale, such as restartable ETL jobs. We have also expanded availability of 2\-replica services to exist at any scale.

### Performance and efficiency improvements [\#](/blog/evolution-of-clickhouse-cloud-new-features-superior-performance-tailored-offerings#performance-and-efficiency-improvements)

Performance regression testing is continuously performed in our cloud to ensure the best user experience while rolling out changes in new database versions. Over the past two years, we added a number of capabilities that **resulted in 1\.5\-2x faster and more efficiently executed queries on top of the same compute unit**, resulting in significant cost savings for our users.

These improvements resulted from many database optimizations. Most significantly, optimized storage for cloud environments was introduced with [SharedMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates), enabling faster metadata propagation and higher rates of inserts. Furthermore, ephemeral local filesystem cache was introduced to increase performance of small queries and optimized with cache prewarm, which enables propagation of fresh data to all replicas and speeds up queries that access most recent data. Asynchronous inserts were introduced to allow even more frequent and smaller writes, enabling users to remove external approaches to batch data written to ClickHouse. Finally, a new "analyzer" was developed at the database level to support additional query optimizations and streamlined query parsing and interpretation.

Additionally, we constantly look for better underlying hardware to run existing workloads. For this reason, we moved to Graviton instances in AWS. As a result of the migration to the advanced architecture and energy\-efficient Graviton instances, we are delivering an average performance boost of 25% for our users, enhancing query speeds and improving resource utilization (read this [blog](https://clickhouse.com/blog/graviton-boosts-clickhouse-cloud-performance) for more details).
