---
source: blog
url: https://www.beehiiv.com/
topic: data-hive-the-story-of-beehiiv-s-journey-from-postgres-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

As the company scaled, they saw other newsletter operators struggling to achieve similar success. They asked themselves, “How do we take what we’ve built and make it so that anybody can create their own newsletter and monetize it?”

They wrote the initial beehiiv product using Ruby on Rails, a framework they knew well. The original database management system, which they called Honeycomb, ran on Postgres using a Ruby queueing system, powering in\-app analytics and internal dashboards. Initially, their focus was on bootstrapping the startup and proving they had a viable business.

“The founding team did tremendous feats of engineering, scaling the system to handle hundreds of millions of events a week,” Eric says.

However, as the platform grew, the system’s limitations became clear. Postgres, while effective at first, struggled with the increasing data demands, leading to occasional performance issues and requiring more engineering resources. The team realized that to continue growing and ensure a top\-notch user experience, they needed a more scalable solution.

## Choosing ClickHouse [\#](/blog/data-hive-the-story-of-beehiivs-journey-from-postgres-to-clickhouse#choosing-clickhouse)

When Eric joined beehiiv in 2023, he proposed an all\-new data infrastructure. He envisioned a system that was highly scalable, fast, and capable of handling [real\-time analytics](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/how-to-choose-a-database-for-real-time-analytics-in-2026) without the need for cumbersome job queues or batch processing. Resilience was also key; the new system had to be fault\-tolerant, disaster\-recoverable, and secure. His broader goal was to move towards a microservices\-based architecture and an event\-driven framework, offering greater flexibility as the company grew.

“The objective was to build a new system from the ground up, to scale not only beehiiv’s data platform, but ideally the business as a whole,” Eric says.

Eric decided to move from an OLTP (Online Transaction Processing) system to an OLAP (Online Analytical Processing) system. While OLTP databases like Postgres can be great for managing transactional data with high consistency and quick updates, they struggle with the high\-volume, complex queries needed for analytics. OLAP systems, on the other hand, are built for speed and scalability, making them ideal for beehiiv’s requirements.
