---
source: blog
url: https://www.beehiiv.com/
topic: data-hive-the-story-of-beehiiv-s-journey-from-postgres-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

for managing transactional data with high consistency and quick updates, they struggle with the high\-volume, complex queries needed for analytics. OLAP systems, on the other hand, are built for speed and scalability, making them ideal for beehiiv’s requirements.

ClickHouse Cloud emerged as the clear choice for its unmatched performance as an OLAP database. It excels at handling billions of rows with lightning\-fast query speeds, thanks to its columnar storage format and real\-time analytics capabilities. The ability to perform automatic materialized aggregations also eliminates the need for batch processing. Additionally, as an open\-source product with a growing ecosystem of integrations, ClickHouse offers the flexibility and adaptability to support beehiiv as it continues to grow and evolve.

### Get started today

Interested in seeing how ClickHouse works on your data? Get started with ClickHouse Cloud in minutes and receive $300 in free credits.

[Sign up](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog)
## A new architecture [\#](/blog/data-hive-the-story-of-beehiivs-journey-from-postgres-to-clickhouse#a-new-architecture)

In beehiiv’s new setup, the data platform is built around a distributed, microservices\-based architecture focused on scalability and efficiency. At its core is Kafka, a distributed streaming platform that manages data flow in real\-time. Data is ingested into Kafka, processed, and then streamed to ClickHouse Cloud for storage and analysis. This approach decouples data ingestion from processing, so that high\-volume event streams are handled smoothly without bottlenecks.

ClickHouse acts as the backbone of beehiiv’s data processing and analytics. As an OLAP database, it’s designed to handle the massive data volumes generated by beehiiv’s millions of users and subscribers. By moving data into ClickHouse after it’s streamed through Kafka, beehiiv ensures that their analytics are not only delivered in real\-time but are also highly scalable, supporting the platform’s growth.

In his presentation at the meetup in New York, Eric highlighted several ClickHouse features the team is leveraging in the new architecture. They include:

### ReplacingMergeTree Table Engine [\#](/blog/data-hive-the-story-of-beehiivs-journey-from-postgres-to-clickhouse#replacingmergetree-table-engine)

This feature ensures data integrity by allowing idempotency, meaning the same row can be inserted multiple times without creating duplicates. This is important when handling data from multiple sources or replaying events, as it prevents data duplication.

### Dictionaries [\#](/blog/data-hive-the-story-of-beehiivs-journey-from-postgres-to-clickhouse#dictionaries)

These make joining metadata to large fact tables instantaneous, which allows for the quick materialization of columns. “Without dictionaries, every insert into the raw email data table would require a join query, slowing down the process,” Eric says.
