---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/user.md)#
topic: alter-user-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

some privileges granted with `GRANT OPTION` it will be able to grant those privileges to anyone except `user2`. ## Examples[​](#examples "Direct link to Examples") Set assigned roles as default: ``` ALTER USER user DEFAULT ROLE role1, role2 ```

If roles aren't previously assigned to a user, ClickHouse throws an exception.

Set all the assigned roles to default:

```
ALTER USER user DEFAULT ROLE ALL

```

If a role is assigned to a user in the future, it will become default automatically.

Set all the assigned roles to default, excepting `role1` and `role2`:

```
ALTER USER user DEFAULT ROLE ALL EXCEPT role1, role2

```

Allows the user with `john` account to grant his privileges to the user with `jack` account:

```
ALTER USER john GRANTEES jack;

```

Adds new authentication methods to the user while keeping the existing ones:

```
ALTER USER user1 ADD IDENTIFIED WITH plaintext_password by '1', bcrypt_password by '2', plaintext_password by '3'

```

Notes:

1. Older versions of ClickHouse might not support the syntax of multiple authentication methods. Therefore, if the ClickHouse server contains such users and is downgraded to a version that does not support it, such users will become unusable and some user related operations will be broken. In order to downgrade gracefully, one must set all users to contain a single authentication method prior to downgrading. Alternatively, if the server was downgraded without the proper procedure, the faulty users should be dropped.
2. `no_password` can not co\-exist with other authentication methods for security reasons.
Because of that, it is not possible to `ADD` a `no_password` authentication method. The below query will throw an error:

```
ALTER USER user1 ADD IDENTIFIED WITH no_password

```

If you want to drop authentication methods for a user and rely on `no_password`, you must specify in the below replacing form.

Reset authentication methods and adds the ones specified in the query (effect of leading IDENTIFIED without the ADD keyword):

```
ALTER USER user1 IDENTIFIED WITH plaintext_password by '1', bcrypt_password by '2', plaintext_password by '3'

```

Reset authentication methods and keep the most recent added one:

```
ALTER USER user1 RESET AUTHENTICATION METHODS TO NEW

```

## VALID UNTIL Clause[​](#valid-until-clause "Direct link to VALID UNTIL Clause")
