# Format Settings \| ClickHouse Docs


- - [Settings](/docs/operations/settings)- Format Settings
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/settings-formats.md)# Format Settings

These settings are autogenerated from [source](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/master/src/Core/FormatFactorySettings.h).


## allow\_special\_bool\_values\_inside\_variant[​](#allow_special_bool_values_inside_variant "Direct link to allow_special_bool_values_inside_variant")



Allows to parse Bool values inside Variant type from special text bool values like "on", "off", "enable", "disable", etc.


## bool\_false\_representation[​](#bool_false_representation "Direct link to bool_false_representation")



Text to represent false bool value in TSV/CSV/Vertical/Pretty formats.


## bool\_true\_representation[​](#bool_true_representation "Direct link to bool_true_representation")



Text to represent true bool value in TSV/CSV/Vertical/Pretty formats.


## check\_conversion\_from\_numbers\_to\_enum[​](#check_conversion_from_numbers_to_enum "Direct link to check_conversion_from_numbers_to_enum")



Throw an exception during Numbers to Enum conversion if the value does not exist in Enum.


Possible values:


- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.


**Example**



```
CREATE TABLE tab (
  val Enum('first' = 1, 'second' = 2, 'third' = 3)
) ENGINE = Memory;

INSERT INTO tab SETTINGS check_conversion_from_numbers_to_enum = 1 VALUES (4); -- returns an error

```

## column\_names\_for\_schema\_inference[​](#column_names_for_schema_inference "Direct link to column_names_for_schema_inference")


The list of column names to use in schema inference for formats without column names. The format: 'column1,column2,column3,...'


## date\_time\_64\_output\_format\_cut\_trailing\_zeros\_align\_to\_groups\_of\_thousands[​](#date_time_64_output_format_cut_trailing_zeros_align_to_groups_of_thousands "Direct link to date_time_64_output_format_cut_trailing_zeros_align_to_groups_of_thousands")



Dynamically trim the trailing zeros of datetime64 values to adjust the output scale to \[0, 3, 6],
corresponding to 'seconds', 'milliseconds', and 'microseconds'


## date\_time\_input\_format[​](#date_time_input_format "Direct link to date_time_input_format")




Allows choosing a parser of the text representation of date and time.


The setting does not apply to [date and time functions](/docs/sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions).


Possible values:


- `'best_effort'` — Enables extended parsing.


ClickHouse can parse the basic `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` format and all [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) date and time formats. For example, `'2018-06-08T01:02:03.000Z'`.
- `'best_effort_us'` — Similar to `best_effort` (see the difference in [parseDateTimeBestEffortUS](/docs/sql-reference/functions/type-conversion-functions#parseDateTimeBestEffortUS)
- `'basic'` — Use basic parser.


ClickHouse can parse only the basic `YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS` or `YYYY-MM-DD` format. For example, `2019-08-20 10:18:56` or `2019-08-20`.


See also:


- [DateTime data type.](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/datetime)
- [Functions for working with dates and times.](/docs/sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions)


## date\_time\_output\_format[​](#date_time_output_format "Direct link to date_time_output_format")



Allows choosing different output formats of the text representation of date and time.


Possible values:


- `simple` \- Simple output format.


ClickHouse output date and time `YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss` format. For example, `2019-08-20 10:18:56`. The calculation is performed according to the data type's time zone (if present) or server time zone.
- `iso` \- ISO output format.


ClickHouse output date and time in [ISO 8601](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601) `YYYY-MM-DDThh:mm:ssZ` format. For example, `2019-08-20T10:18:56Z`. Note that output is in UTC (`Z` means UTC).
- `unix_timestamp` \- Unix timestamp output format.


ClickHouse output date and time in [Unix timestamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time) format. For example `1566285536`.


See also:


- [DateTime data type.](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/datetime)
- [Functions for working with dates and times.](/docs/sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions)


## date\_time\_overflow\_behavior[​](#date_time_overflow_behavior "Direct link to date_time_overflow_behavior")



Defines the behavior when [Date](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/date), [Date32](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/date32), [DateTime](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/datetime), [DateTime64](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/datetime64) or integers are converted into Date, Date32, DateTime or DateTime64 but the value cannot be represented in the result type.


Possible values:


- `ignore` — Silently ignore overflows. Result are undefined.
- `throw` — Throw an exception in case of overflow.
- `saturate` — Saturate the result. If the value is smaller than the smallest value that can be represented by the target type, the result is chosen as the smallest representable value. If the value is bigger than the largest value that can be represented by the target type, the result is chosen as the largest representable value.


Default value: `ignore`.


## errors\_output\_format[​](#errors_output_format "Direct link to errors_output_format")



Method to write Errors to text output.


## format\_avro\_schema\_registry\_connection\_timeout[​](#format_avro_schema_registry_connection_timeout "Direct link to format_avro_schema_registry_connection_timeout")




For AvroConfluent format: connection timeout in seconds for the Confluent Schema Registry HTTP client. Used by both schema fetch and schema registration. Must be greater than 0 and less than 600 (10 minutes).


## format\_avro\_schema\_registry\_receive\_timeout[​](#format_avro_schema_registry_receive_timeout "Direct link to format_avro_schema_registry_receive_timeout")




For AvroConfluent format: receive timeout in seconds for the Confluent Schema Registry HTTP client. Used by both schema fetch and schema registration. Must be greater than 0 and less than 600 (10 minutes).


## format\_avro\_schema\_registry\_send\_timeout[​](#format_avro_schema_registry_send_timeout "Direct link to format_avro_schema_registry_send_timeout")




For AvroConfluent format: send timeout in seconds for the Confluent Schema Registry HTTP client. Used by both schema fetch and schema registration. Must be greater than 0 and less than 600 (10 minutes).


## format\_avro\_schema\_registry\_url[​](#format_avro_schema_registry_url "Direct link to format_avro_schema_registry_url")


For AvroConfluent format: Confluent Schema Registry URL.


## format\_binary\_max\_array\_size[​](#format_binary_max_array_size "Direct link to format_binary_max_array_size")



The maximum allowed size for Array in RowBinary format. It prevents allocating large amount of memory in case of corrupted data. 0 means there is no limit


## format\_binary\_max\_object\_size[​](#format_binary_max_object_size "Direct link to format_binary_max_object_size")




The maximum allowed number of paths in a single Object for JSON type RowBinary format. It prevents allocating large amount of memory in case of corrupted data. 0 means there is no limit


## format\_binary\_max\_string\_size[​](#format_binary_max_string_size "Direct link to format_binary_max_string_size")




The maximum allowed size for String in RowBinary format. It prevents allocating large amount of memory in case of corrupted data. 0 means there is no limit


## format\_capn\_proto\_enum\_comparising\_mode[​](#format_capn_proto_enum_comparising_mode "Direct link to format_capn_proto_enum_comparising_mode")



How to map ClickHouse Enum and CapnProto Enum


## format\_capn\_proto\_max\_message\_size[​](#format_capn_proto_max_message_size "Direct link to format_capn_proto_max_message_size")




Maximum size of a single CapnProto message in bytes. This protects against malformed or corrupted data causing excessive memory allocation. Default is 1 GiB.


## format\_capn\_proto\_use\_autogenerated\_schema[​](#format_capn_proto_use_autogenerated_schema "Direct link to format_capn_proto_use_autogenerated_schema")



Use autogenerated CapnProto schema when format\_schema is not set


## format\_csv\_allow\_double\_quotes[​](#format_csv_allow_double_quotes "Direct link to format_csv_allow_double_quotes")



If it is set to true, allow strings in double quotes.


## format\_csv\_allow\_single\_quotes[​](#format_csv_allow_single_quotes "Direct link to format_csv_allow_single_quotes")




If it is set to true, allow strings in single quotes.


## format\_csv\_delimiter[​](#format_csv_delimiter "Direct link to format_csv_delimiter")



The character to be considered as a delimiter in CSV data. If setting with a string, a string has to have a length of 1\.


## format\_csv\_null\_representation[​](#format_csv_null_representation "Direct link to format_csv_null_representation")



Custom NULL representation in CSV format


## format\_custom\_escaping\_rule[​](#format_custom_escaping_rule "Direct link to format_custom_escaping_rule")



Field escaping rule (for CustomSeparated format)


## format\_custom\_field\_delimiter[​](#format_custom_field_delimiter "Direct link to format_custom_field_delimiter")



Delimiter between fields (for CustomSeparated format)


## format\_custom\_result\_after\_delimiter[​](#format_custom_result_after_delimiter "Direct link to format_custom_result_after_delimiter")


Suffix after result set (for CustomSeparated format)


## format\_custom\_result\_before\_delimiter[​](#format_custom_result_before_delimiter "Direct link to format_custom_result_before_delimiter")


Prefix before result set (for CustomSeparated format)


## format\_custom\_row\_after\_delimiter[​](#format_custom_row_after_delimiter "Direct link to format_custom_row_after_delimiter")



Delimiter after field of the last column (for CustomSeparated format)


## format\_custom\_row\_before\_delimiter[​](#format_custom_row_before_delimiter "Direct link to format_custom_row_before_delimiter")


Delimiter before field of the first column (for CustomSeparated format)


## format\_custom\_row\_between\_delimiter[​](#format_custom_row_between_delimiter "Direct link to format_custom_row_between_delimiter")


Delimiter between rows (for CustomSeparated format)


## format\_display\_secrets\_in\_show\_and\_select[​](#format_display_secrets_in_show_and_select "Direct link to format_display_secrets_in_show_and_select")



Enables or disables showing secrets in `SHOW` and `SELECT` queries for tables, databases,
table functions, and dictionaries.


User wishing to see secrets must also have
[`display_secrets_in_show_and_select` server setting](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#display_secrets_in_show_and_select)
turned on and a
[`displaySecretsInShowAndSelect`](/docs/sql-reference/statements/grant#displaysecretsinshowandselect) privilege.


Possible values:


- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.


## format\_json\_object\_each\_row\_column\_for\_object\_name[​](#format_json_object_each_row_column_for_object_name "Direct link to format_json_object_each_row_column_for_object_name")


The name of column that will be used for storing/writing object names in [JSONObjectEachRow](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONObjectEachRow) format.
Column type should be String. If value is empty, default names `row_{i}`will be used for object names.


## format\_protobuf\_use\_autogenerated\_schema[​](#format_protobuf_use_autogenerated_schema "Direct link to format_protobuf_use_autogenerated_schema")



Use autogenerated Protobuf when format\_schema is not set


## format\_regexp[​](#format_regexp "Direct link to format_regexp")


Regular expression (for Regexp format)


## format\_regexp\_escaping\_rule[​](#format_regexp_escaping_rule "Direct link to format_regexp_escaping_rule")




Field escaping rule (for Regexp format)


## format\_regexp\_skip\_unmatched[​](#format_regexp_skip_unmatched "Direct link to format_regexp_skip_unmatched")



Skip lines unmatched by regular expression (for Regexp format)


## format\_schema[​](#format_schema "Direct link to format_schema")


This parameter is useful when you are using formats that require a schema definition, such as [Cap'n Proto](https://capnproto.org/) or [Protobuf](https://developers.google.com/protocol-buffers/). The value depends on the format.


## format\_schema\_message\_name[​](#format_schema_message_name "Direct link to format_schema_message_name")



Define the name of the required message in the schema defined in `format_schema`.
To maintain compatibility with the legacy format\_schema format (`file_name:message_name`):


- If `format_schema_message_name` is not specified, the message name is inferred from the `message_name` part of the legacy `format_schema` value.
- If `format_schema_message_name` is specified while using the legacy format, an error will be raised.


## format\_schema\_source[​](#format_schema_source "Direct link to format_schema_source")




Define the source of `format_schema`.
Possible values:


- 'file' (default): The `format_schema` is the name of a schema file located in the `format_schemas` directory.
- 'string': The `format_schema` is the literal content of the schema.
- 'query': The `format_schema` is a query to retrieve the schema.
When `format_schema_source` is set to 'query', the following conditions apply:
- The query must return exactly one value: a single row with a single string column.
- The result of the query is treated as the schema content.
- This result is cached locally in the `format_schemas` directory.
- You can clear the local cache using the command: `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE FOR Files`.
- Once cached, identical queries are not executed to fetch the schema again until the cache is explicitly cleared
- In addition to local cache files, Protobuf messages are also cached in memory. Even after clearing the local cache files, the in\-memory cache must be cleared using `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE [FOR Protobuf]` to fully refresh the schema.
- Run the query `SYSTEM DROP FORMAT SCHEMA CACHE` to clear the cache for both cache files and Protobuf messages schemas at once.


## format\_template\_resultset[​](#format_template_resultset "Direct link to format_template_resultset")


Path to file which contains format string for result set (for Template format)


## format\_template\_resultset\_format[​](#format_template_resultset_format "Direct link to format_template_resultset_format")



Format string for result set (for Template format)


## format\_template\_row[​](#format_template_row "Direct link to format_template_row")


Path to file which contains format string for rows (for Template format)


## format\_template\_row\_format[​](#format_template_row_format "Direct link to format_template_row_format")



Format string for rows (for Template format)


## format\_template\_rows\_between\_delimiter[​](#format_template_rows_between_delimiter "Direct link to format_template_rows_between_delimiter")



Delimiter between rows (for Template format)


## format\_tsv\_null\_representation[​](#format_tsv_null_representation "Direct link to format_tsv_null_representation")



Custom NULL representation in TSV format


## input\_format\_allow\_errors\_num[​](#input_format_allow_errors_num "Direct link to input_format_allow_errors_num")



Sets the maximum number of acceptable errors when reading from text formats (CSV, TSV, etc.).


The default value is 0\.


Always pair it with `input_format_allow_errors_ratio`.


If an error occurred while reading rows but the error counter is still less than `input_format_allow_errors_num`, ClickHouse ignores the row and moves on to the next one.


If both `input_format_allow_errors_num` and `input_format_allow_errors_ratio` are exceeded, ClickHouse throws an exception.


## input\_format\_allow\_errors\_ratio[​](#input_format_allow_errors_ratio "Direct link to input_format_allow_errors_ratio")



Sets the maximum percentage of errors allowed when reading from text formats (CSV, TSV, etc.).
The percentage of errors is set as a floating\-point number between 0 and 1\.


The default value is 0\.


Always pair it with `input_format_allow_errors_num`.


If an error occurred while reading rows but the error counter is still less than `input_format_allow_errors_ratio`, ClickHouse ignores the row and moves on to the next one.


If both `input_format_allow_errors_num` and `input_format_allow_errors_ratio` are exceeded, ClickHouse throws an exception.


## input\_format\_allow\_seeks[​](#input_format_allow_seeks "Direct link to input_format_allow_seeks")



Allow seeks (or range reads) while reading ORC, Parquet, and Arrow input formats.
When enabled and the source supports it (e.g. local file, S3, HTTP with range support and known size),
ClickHouse can read only the needed byte ranges and use less memory.
When disabled, or when the source does not support seeks (e.g. no file size, or stream not seekable),
some readers may fall back to loading the full file into memory.
Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_arrow\_allow\_missing\_columns[​](#input_format_arrow_allow_missing_columns "Direct link to input_format_arrow_allow_missing_columns")




Allow missing columns while reading Arrow input formats


## input\_format\_arrow\_case\_insensitive\_column\_matching[​](#input_format_arrow_case_insensitive_column_matching "Direct link to input_format_arrow_case_insensitive_column_matching")



Ignore case when matching Arrow columns with CH columns.


## input\_format\_arrow\_skip\_columns\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_arrow_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_arrow_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference")



Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format Arrow


## input\_format\_avro\_allow\_missing\_fields[​](#input_format_avro_allow_missing_fields "Direct link to input_format_avro_allow_missing_fields")



For Avro/AvroConfluent format: when field is not found in schema use default value instead of error


## input\_format\_avro\_null\_as\_default[​](#input_format_avro_null_as_default "Direct link to input_format_avro_null_as_default")



For Avro/AvroConfluent format: insert default in case of null and non Nullable colum


## input\_format\_binary\_decode\_types\_in\_binary\_format[​](#input_format_binary_decode_types_in_binary_format "Direct link to input_format_binary_decode_types_in_binary_format")




Read data types in binary format instead of type names in RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes input format


## input\_format\_binary\_max\_type\_complexity[​](#input_format_binary_max_type_complexity "Direct link to input_format_binary_max_type_complexity")




Max type nodes when decoding binary types (not depth, but total count). `Map(String, UInt32)` \= 3 nodes. Protects against malicious inputs. 0 \= unlimited.


## input\_format\_binary\_read\_json\_as\_string[​](#input_format_binary_read_json_as_string "Direct link to input_format_binary_read_json_as_string")




Read values of [JSON](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/newjson) data type as JSON [String](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/string) values in RowBinary input format.


## input\_format\_bson\_skip\_fields\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_bson_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_bson_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference")



Skip fields with unsupported types while schema inference for format BSON.


## input\_format\_capn\_proto\_skip\_fields\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_capn_proto_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_capn_proto_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference")



Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format CapnProto


## input\_format\_column\_name\_matching\_mode[​](#input_format_column_name_matching_mode "Direct link to input_format_column_name_matching_mode")




Defines the column name matching mode when ingesting data through various formats (including but not limited to JSONEachRow, CSVWithNames, JSONColumns, BSONEachRow, RowBinaryWithNames).
Supported modes:


- match\_case: match case\-sensitively
- ignore\_case: match case\-insensitively
- auto: first tries to match case\-sensitively, if fails, tries to match case\-insensitively.


## input\_format\_connection\_handling[​](#input_format_connection_handling "Direct link to input_format_connection_handling")




When this option is enabled, if the connection closes unexpectedly, any remaining data in the buffer will be parsed and processed instead of being treated as an error


NoteEnabling this option disables parallel parsing and makes deduplication impossible


## input\_format\_csv\_allow\_cr\_end\_of\_line[​](#input_format_csv_allow_cr_end_of_line "Direct link to input_format_csv_allow_cr_end_of_line")



If it is set true, \\r will be allowed at end of line not followed by


## input\_format\_csv\_allow\_variable\_number\_of\_columns[​](#input_format_csv_allow_variable_number_of_columns "Direct link to input_format_csv_allow_variable_number_of_columns")



Ignore extra columns in CSV input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in CSV input as default values


## input\_format\_csv\_allow\_whitespace\_or\_tab\_as\_delimiter[​](#input_format_csv_allow_whitespace_or_tab_as_delimiter "Direct link to input_format_csv_allow_whitespace_or_tab_as_delimiter")



Allow to use spaces and tabs(\\t) as field delimiter in the CSV strings


## input\_format\_csv\_arrays\_as\_nested\_csv[​](#input_format_csv_arrays_as_nested_csv "Direct link to input_format_csv_arrays_as_nested_csv")



When reading Array from CSV, expect that its elements were serialized in nested CSV and then put into string. Example: "\[""Hello"", ""world"", ""42"""" TV""]". Braces around array can be omitted.


## input\_format\_csv\_deserialize\_separate\_columns\_into\_tuple[​](#input_format_csv_deserialize_separate_columns_into_tuple "Direct link to input_format_csv_deserialize_separate_columns_into_tuple")




If it set to true, then separate columns written in CSV format can be deserialized to Tuple column.


## input\_format\_csv\_detect\_header[​](#input_format_csv_detect_header "Direct link to input_format_csv_detect_header")




Automatically detect header with names and types in CSV format


## input\_format\_csv\_empty\_as\_default[​](#input_format_csv_empty_as_default "Direct link to input_format_csv_empty_as_default")



Treat empty fields in CSV input as default values.


## input\_format\_csv\_enum\_as\_number[​](#input_format_csv_enum_as_number "Direct link to input_format_csv_enum_as_number")



Treat inserted enum values in CSV formats as enum indices


## input\_format\_csv\_skip\_first\_lines[​](#input_format_csv_skip_first_lines "Direct link to input_format_csv_skip_first_lines")



Skip specified number of lines at the beginning of data in CSV format


## input\_format\_csv\_skip\_trailing\_empty\_lines[​](#input_format_csv_skip_trailing_empty_lines "Direct link to input_format_csv_skip_trailing_empty_lines")



Skip trailing empty lines in CSV format


## input\_format\_csv\_trim\_whitespaces[​](#input_format_csv_trim_whitespaces "Direct link to input_format_csv_trim_whitespaces")



Trims spaces and tabs (\\t) characters at the beginning and end in CSV strings


## input\_format\_csv\_try\_infer\_numbers\_from\_strings[​](#input_format_csv_try_infer_numbers_from_strings "Direct link to input_format_csv_try_infer_numbers_from_strings")



If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will try to infer numbers from string fields.
It can be useful if CSV data contains quoted UInt64 numbers.


Disabled by default.


## input\_format\_csv\_try\_infer\_strings\_from\_quoted\_tuples[​](#input_format_csv_try_infer_strings_from_quoted_tuples "Direct link to input_format_csv_try_infer_strings_from_quoted_tuples")




Interpret quoted tuples in the input data as a value of type String.


## input\_format\_csv\_use\_best\_effort\_in\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_csv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_csv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference")



Use some tweaks and heuristics to infer schema in CSV format


## input\_format\_csv\_use\_default\_on\_bad\_values[​](#input_format_csv_use_default_on_bad_values "Direct link to input_format_csv_use_default_on_bad_values")



Allow to set default value to column when CSV field deserialization failed on bad value


## input\_format\_custom\_allow\_variable\_number\_of\_columns[​](#input_format_custom_allow_variable_number_of_columns "Direct link to input_format_custom_allow_variable_number_of_columns")



Ignore extra columns in CustomSeparated input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in CustomSeparated input as default values


## input\_format\_custom\_detect\_header[​](#input_format_custom_detect_header "Direct link to input_format_custom_detect_header")




Automatically detect header with names and types in CustomSeparated format


## input\_format\_custom\_skip\_trailing\_empty\_lines[​](#input_format_custom_skip_trailing_empty_lines "Direct link to input_format_custom_skip_trailing_empty_lines")



Skip trailing empty lines in CustomSeparated format


## input\_format\_defaults\_for\_omitted\_fields[​](#input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields "Direct link to input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields")




When performing `INSERT` queries, replace omitted input column values with default values of the respective columns. This option applies to [JSONEachRow](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats), [CSV](/docs/interfaces/formats/CSV), [TabSeparated](/docs/interfaces/formats/TabSeparated), [TSKV](/docs/interfaces/formats/TSKV), [Parquet](/docs/interfaces/formats/Parquet), [Arrow](/docs/interfaces/formats/Arrow), [Avro](/docs/interfaces/formats/Avro), [ORC](/docs/interfaces/formats/ORC), [Native](/docs/interfaces/formats/Native) formats and formats with `WithNames`/`WithNamesAndTypes` suffixes.


NoteWhen this option is enabled, extended table metadata are sent from server to client. It consumes additional computing resources on the server and can reduce performance.


Possible values:


- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.


## input\_format\_force\_null\_for\_omitted\_fields[​](#input_format_force_null_for_omitted_fields "Direct link to input_format_force_null_for_omitted_fields")




Force initialize omitted fields with null values


## input\_format\_hive\_text\_allow\_variable\_number\_of\_columns[​](#input_format_hive_text_allow_variable_number_of_columns "Direct link to input_format_hive_text_allow_variable_number_of_columns")




Ignore extra columns in Hive Text input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in Hive Text input as default values


## input\_format\_hive\_text\_collection\_items\_delimiter[​](#input_format_hive_text_collection_items_delimiter "Direct link to input_format_hive_text_collection_items_delimiter")



Delimiter between collection(array or map) items in Hive Text File


## input\_format\_hive\_text\_fields\_delimiter[​](#input_format_hive_text_fields_delimiter "Direct link to input_format_hive_text_fields_delimiter")



Delimiter between fields in Hive Text File


## input\_format\_hive\_text\_map\_keys\_delimiter[​](#input_format_hive_text_map_keys_delimiter "Direct link to input_format_hive_text_map_keys_delimiter")



Delimiter between a pair of map key/values in Hive Text File


## input\_format\_import\_nested\_json[​](#input_format_import_nested_json "Direct link to input_format_import_nested_json")



Enables or disables the insertion of JSON data with nested objects.


Supported formats:


- [JSONEachRow](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow)


Possible values:


- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.


See also:


- [Usage of Nested Structures](/docs/integrations/data-formats/json/other-formats#accessing-nested-json-objects) with the `JSONEachRow` format.


## input\_format\_ipv4\_default\_on\_conversion\_error[​](#input_format_ipv4_default_on_conversion_error "Direct link to input_format_ipv4_default_on_conversion_error")



Deserialization of IPv4 will use default values instead of throwing exception on conversion error.


Disabled by default.


## input\_format\_ipv6\_default\_on\_conversion\_error[​](#input_format_ipv6_default_on_conversion_error "Direct link to input_format_ipv6_default_on_conversion_error")



Deserialization of IPV6 will use default values instead of throwing exception on conversion error.


Disabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_compact\_allow\_variable\_number\_of\_columns[​](#input_format_json_compact_allow_variable_number_of_columns "Direct link to input_format_json_compact_allow_variable_number_of_columns")



Allow variable number of columns in rows in JSONCompact/JSONCompactEachRow input formats.
Ignore extra columns in rows with more columns than expected and treat missing columns as default values.


Disabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_defaults\_for\_missing\_elements\_in\_named\_tuple[​](#input_format_json_defaults_for_missing_elements_in_named_tuple "Direct link to input_format_json_defaults_for_missing_elements_in_named_tuple")




Insert default values for missing elements in JSON object while parsing named tuple.
This setting works only when setting `input_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects` is enabled.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_empty\_as\_default[​](#input_format_json_empty_as_default "Direct link to input_format_json_empty_as_default")




When enabled, replace empty input fields in JSON with default values. For complex default expressions `input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields` must be enabled too.


Possible values:


- 0 — Disable.
- 1 — Enable.


## input\_format\_json\_ignore\_unknown\_keys\_in\_named\_tuple[​](#input_format_json_ignore_unknown_keys_in_named_tuple "Direct link to input_format_json_ignore_unknown_keys_in_named_tuple")




Ignore unknown keys in json object for named tuples.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_ignore\_unnecessary\_fields[​](#input_format_json_ignore_unnecessary_fields "Direct link to input_format_json_ignore_unnecessary_fields")




Ignore unnecessary fields and not parse them. Enabling this may not throw exceptions on json strings of invalid format or with duplicated fields


## input\_format\_json\_infer\_array\_of\_dynamic\_from\_array\_of\_different\_types[​](#input_format_json_infer_array_of_dynamic_from_array_of_different_types "Direct link to input_format_json_infer_array_of_dynamic_from_array_of_different_types")




If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will use Array(Dynamic) type for JSON arrays with values of different data types.


Example:



```
SET input_format_json_infer_array_of_dynamic_from_array_of_different_types=1;
DESC format(JSONEachRow, '{"a" : [42, "hello", [1, 2, 3]]}');

```


```
┌─name─┬─type───────────┐
│ a    │ Array(Dynamic) │
└──────┴────────────────┘

```


```
SET input_format_json_infer_array_of_dynamic_from_array_of_different_types=0;
DESC format(JSONEachRow, '{"a" : [42, "hello", [1, 2, 3]]}');

```


```
┌─name─┬─type─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│ a    │ Tuple(Nullable(Int64), Nullable(String), Array(Nullable(Int64))) │
└──────┴──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘

```

Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_infer\_incomplete\_types\_as\_strings[​](#input_format_json_infer_incomplete_types_as_strings "Direct link to input_format_json_infer_incomplete_types_as_strings")




Allow to use String type for JSON keys that contain only `Null`/`{}`/`[]` in data sample during schema inference.
In JSON formats any value can be read as String, and we can avoid errors like `Cannot determine type for column 'column_name' by first 25000 rows of data, most likely this column contains only Nulls or empty Arrays/Maps` during schema inference
by using String type for keys with unknown types.


Example:



```
SET input_format_json_infer_incomplete_types_as_strings = 1, input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects = 1;
DESCRIBE format(JSONEachRow, '{"obj" : {"a" : [1,2,3], "b" : "hello", "c" : null, "d" : {}, "e" : []}}');
SELECT * FROM format(JSONEachRow, '{"obj" : {"a" : [1,2,3], "b" : "hello", "c" : null, "d" : {}, "e" : []}}');

```

Result:



```
┌─name─┬─type───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬─default_type─┬─default_expression─┬─comment─┬─codec_expression─┬─ttl_expression─┐
│ obj  │ Tuple(a Array(Nullable(Int64)), b Nullable(String), c Nullable(String), d Nullable(String), e Array(Nullable(String))) │              │                    │         │                  │                │
└──────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴──────────────┴────────────────────┴─────────┴──────────────────┴────────────────┘

┌─obj────────────────────────────┐
│ ([1,2,3],'hello',NULL,'{}',[]) │
└────────────────────────────────┘

```

Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_map\_as\_array\_of\_tuples[​](#input_format_json_map_as_array_of_tuples "Direct link to input_format_json_map_as_array_of_tuples")




Deserialize maps columns as JSON arrays of tuples.


Disabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_max\_depth[​](#input_format_json_max_depth "Direct link to input_format_json_max_depth")




Maximum depth of a field in JSON. This is not a strict limit, it does not have to be applied precisely.


## input\_format\_json\_named\_tuples\_as\_objects[​](#input_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects "Direct link to input_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects")



Parse named tuple columns as JSON objects.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_read\_arrays\_as\_strings[​](#input_format_json_read_arrays_as_strings "Direct link to input_format_json_read_arrays_as_strings")




Allow parsing JSON arrays as strings in JSON input formats.


Example:



```
SET input_format_json_read_arrays_as_strings = 1;
SELECT arr, toTypeName(arr), JSONExtractArrayRaw(arr)[3] from format(JSONEachRow, 'arr String', '{"arr" : [1, "Hello", [1,2,3]]}');

```

Result:



```
┌─arr───────────────────┬─toTypeName(arr)─┬─arrayElement(JSONExtractArrayRaw(arr), 3)─┐
│ [1, "Hello", [1,2,3]] │ String          │ [1,2,3]                                   │
└───────────────────────┴─────────────────┴───────────────────────────────────────────┘

```

Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_read\_bools\_as\_numbers[​](#input_format_json_read_bools_as_numbers "Direct link to input_format_json_read_bools_as_numbers")



Allow parsing bools as numbers in JSON input formats.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_read\_bools\_as\_strings[​](#input_format_json_read_bools_as_strings "Direct link to input_format_json_read_bools_as_strings")




Allow parsing bools as strings in JSON input formats.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_read\_numbers\_as\_strings[​](#input_format_json_read_numbers_as_strings "Direct link to input_format_json_read_numbers_as_strings")




Allow parsing numbers as strings in JSON input formats.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_read\_objects\_as\_strings[​](#input_format_json_read_objects_as_strings "Direct link to input_format_json_read_objects_as_strings")




Allow parsing JSON objects as strings in JSON input formats.


Example:



```
SET input_format_json_read_objects_as_strings = 1;
CREATE TABLE test (id UInt64, obj String, date Date) ENGINE=Memory();
INSERT INTO test FORMAT JSONEachRow {"id" : 1, "obj" : {"a" : 1, "b" : "Hello"}, "date" : "2020-01-01"};
SELECT * FROM test;

```

Result:



```
┌─id─┬─obj──────────────────────┬───────date─┐
│  1 │ {"a" : 1, "b" : "Hello"} │ 2020-01-01 │
└────┴──────────────────────────┴────────────┘

```

Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_throw\_on\_bad\_escape\_sequence[​](#input_format_json_throw_on_bad_escape_sequence "Direct link to input_format_json_throw_on_bad_escape_sequence")




Throw an exception if JSON string contains bad escape sequence in JSON input formats. If disabled, bad escape sequences will remain as is in the data.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_try\_infer\_named\_tuples\_from\_objects[​](#input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects "Direct link to input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects")




If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will try to infer named Tuple from JSON objects.
The resulting named Tuple will contain all elements from all corresponding JSON objects from sample data.


Example:



```
SET input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects = 1;
DESC format(JSONEachRow, '{"obj" : {"a" : 42, "b" : "Hello"}}, {"obj" : {"a" : 43, "c" : [1, 2, 3]}}, {"obj" : {"d" : {"e" : 42}}}')

```

Result:



```
┌─name─┬─type───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┬─default_type─┬─default_expression─┬─comment─┬─codec_expression─┬─ttl_expression─┐
│ obj  │ Tuple(a Nullable(Int64), b Nullable(String), c Array(Nullable(Int64)), d Tuple(e Nullable(Int64))) │              │                    │         │                  │                │
└──────┴────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┴──────────────┴────────────────────┴─────────┴──────────────────┴────────────────┘

```

Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_try\_infer\_numbers\_from\_strings[​](#input_format_json_try_infer_numbers_from_strings "Direct link to input_format_json_try_infer_numbers_from_strings")




If enabled, during schema inference ClickHouse will try to infer numbers from string fields.
It can be useful if JSON data contains quoted UInt64 numbers.


Disabled by default.


## input\_format\_json\_use\_string\_type\_for\_ambiguous\_paths\_in\_named\_tuples\_inference\_from\_objects[​](#input_format_json_use_string_type_for_ambiguous_paths_in_named_tuples_inference_from_objects "Direct link to input_format_json_use_string_type_for_ambiguous_paths_in_named_tuples_inference_from_objects")




Use String type instead of an exception in case of ambiguous paths in JSON objects during named tuples inference


## input\_format\_json\_validate\_types\_from\_metadata[​](#input_format_json_validate_types_from_metadata "Direct link to input_format_json_validate_types_from_metadata")



For JSON/JSONCompact/JSONColumnsWithMetadata input formats, if this setting is set to 1,
the types from metadata in input data will be compared with the types of the corresponding columns from the table.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_max\_block\_size\_bytes[​](#input_format_max_block_size_bytes "Direct link to input_format_max_block_size_bytes")




Limits the size of the blocks formed during data parsing in input formats in bytes. Used in row based input formats when block is formed on ClickHouse side.
0 means no limit in bytes.


## input\_format\_max\_block\_wait\_ms[​](#input_format_max_block_wait_ms "Direct link to input_format_max_block_wait_ms")




Limits the maximum time in milliseconds to wait before emitting a block during parsing in row\-based input formats. 0 means no limit.


NoteThis option only works if `input_format_connection_handling` is enabled. Setting a value also disables parallel parsing and makes deduplication impossible.


NoteFor streaming inserts, you must also set `min_insert_block_size_rows=0` and `min_insert_block_size_bytes=0`. Otherwise, parsed blocks may still be accumulated in memory by the block squashing stage until those thresholds are reached, preventing timely inserts.


**Example: streaming Wikipedia recent changes into ClickHouse**



```
clickhouse-client --query 'CREATE TABLE wikipedia_edits (data JSON)'

curl -sS --globoff -H 'Accept: application/json' --no-buffer \
  'https://stream.wikimedia.org/v2/stream/recentchange' \
  | clickhouse-client \
      --query 'INSERT INTO wikipedia_edits FORMAT JSONAsObject' \
      --input_format_max_block_wait_ms 1000 \
      --input_format_connection_handling 1 \
      --min_insert_block_size_rows 0 \
      --min_insert_block_size_bytes 0

```

## input\_format\_max\_bytes\_to\_read\_for\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_max_bytes_to_read_for_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_max_bytes_to_read_for_schema_inference")



The maximum amount of data in bytes to read for automatic schema inference.


## input\_format\_max\_rows\_to\_read\_for\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_max_rows_to_read_for_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_max_rows_to_read_for_schema_inference")



The maximum rows of data to read for automatic schema inference.


## input\_format\_msgpack\_number\_of\_columns[​](#input_format_msgpack_number_of_columns "Direct link to input_format_msgpack_number_of_columns")



The number of columns in inserted MsgPack data. Used for automatic schema inference from data.


## input\_format\_mysql\_dump\_map\_column\_names[​](#input_format_mysql_dump_map_column_names "Direct link to input_format_mysql_dump_map_column_names")



Match columns from table in MySQL dump and columns from ClickHouse table by names


## input\_format\_mysql\_dump\_table\_name[​](#input_format_mysql_dump_table_name "Direct link to input_format_mysql_dump_table_name")


Name of the table in MySQL dump from which to read data


## input\_format\_native\_allow\_types\_conversion[​](#input_format_native_allow_types_conversion "Direct link to input_format_native_allow_types_conversion")




Allow data types conversion in Native input format


## input\_format\_native\_decode\_types\_in\_binary\_format[​](#input_format_native_decode_types_in_binary_format "Direct link to input_format_native_decode_types_in_binary_format")




Read data types in binary format instead of type names in Native input format


## input\_format\_null\_as\_default[​](#input_format_null_as_default "Direct link to input_format_null_as_default")




Enables or disables the initialization of [NULL](/docs/sql-reference/syntax#literals) fields with [default values](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/table#default_values), if data type of these fields is not [nullable](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/nullable).
If column type is not nullable and this setting is disabled, then inserting `NULL` causes an exception. If column type is nullable, then `NULL` values are inserted as is, regardless of this setting.


This setting is applicable for most input formats.


For complex default expressions `input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields` must be enabled too.


Possible values:


- 0 — Inserting `NULL` into a not nullable column causes an exception.
- 1 — `NULL` fields are initialized with default column values.


## input\_format\_orc\_allow\_missing\_columns[​](#input_format_orc_allow_missing_columns "Direct link to input_format_orc_allow_missing_columns")




Allow missing columns while reading ORC input formats


## input\_format\_orc\_case\_insensitive\_column\_matching[​](#input_format_orc_case_insensitive_column_matching "Direct link to input_format_orc_case_insensitive_column_matching")



Ignore case when matching ORC columns with CH columns.


## input\_format\_orc\_dictionary\_as\_low\_cardinality[​](#input_format_orc_dictionary_as_low_cardinality "Direct link to input_format_orc_dictionary_as_low_cardinality")




Treat ORC dictionary encoded columns as LowCardinality columns while reading ORC files.


## input\_format\_orc\_filter\_push\_down[​](#input_format_orc_filter_push_down "Direct link to input_format_orc_filter_push_down")



When reading ORC files, skip whole stripes or row groups based on the WHERE/PREWHERE expressions, min/max statistics or bloom filter in the ORC metadata.


## input\_format\_orc\_reader\_time\_zone\_name[​](#input_format_orc_reader_time_zone_name "Direct link to input_format_orc_reader_time_zone_name")




The time zone name for ORC row reader, the default ORC row reader's time zone is GMT.


## input\_format\_orc\_row\_batch\_size[​](#input_format_orc_row_batch_size "Direct link to input_format_orc_row_batch_size")



Batch size when reading ORC stripes.


## input\_format\_orc\_skip\_columns\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_orc_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_orc_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference")



Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format ORC


## input\_format\_orc\_use\_fast\_decoder[​](#input_format_orc_use_fast_decoder "Direct link to input_format_orc_use_fast_decoder")



Use a faster ORC decoder implementation.


## input\_format\_parallel\_parsing[​](#input_format_parallel_parsing "Direct link to input_format_parallel_parsing")



Enables or disables order\-preserving parallel parsing of data formats. Supported only for [TabSeparated (TSV)](/docs/interfaces/formats/TabSeparated), [TSKV](/docs/interfaces/formats/TSKV), [CSV](/docs/interfaces/formats/CSV) and [JSONEachRow](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) formats.


Possible values:


- 1 — Enabled.
- 0 — Disabled.


## input\_format\_parquet\_allow\_geoparquet\_parser[​](#input_format_parquet_allow_geoparquet_parser "Direct link to input_format_parquet_allow_geoparquet_parser")




Use geo column parser to convert Array(UInt8\) into Point/Linestring/Polygon/MultiLineString/MultiPolygon types


## input\_format\_parquet\_allow\_missing\_columns[​](#input_format_parquet_allow_missing_columns "Direct link to input_format_parquet_allow_missing_columns")




Allow missing columns while reading Parquet input formats


## input\_format\_parquet\_bloom\_filter\_push\_down[​](#input_format_parquet_bloom_filter_push_down "Direct link to input_format_parquet_bloom_filter_push_down")




When reading Parquet files, skip whole row groups based on the WHERE expressions and bloom filter in the Parquet metadata.


## input\_format\_parquet\_case\_insensitive\_column\_matching[​](#input_format_parquet_case_insensitive_column_matching "Direct link to input_format_parquet_case_insensitive_column_matching")



Ignore case when matching Parquet columns with CH columns.


## input\_format\_parquet\_enable\_json\_parsing[​](#input_format_parquet_enable_json_parsing "Direct link to input_format_parquet_enable_json_parsing")




When reading Parquet files, parse JSON columns as ClickHouse JSON Column.


## input\_format\_parquet\_enable\_row\_group\_prefetch[​](#input_format_parquet_enable_row_group_prefetch "Direct link to input_format_parquet_enable_row_group_prefetch")




Enable row group prefetching during parquet parsing. Currently, only single\-threaded parsing can prefetch.


## input\_format\_parquet\_filter\_push\_down[​](#input_format_parquet_filter_push_down "Direct link to input_format_parquet_filter_push_down")



When reading Parquet files, skip whole row groups based on the WHERE/PREWHERE expressions and min/max statistics in the Parquet metadata.


## input\_format\_parquet\_local\_file\_min\_bytes\_for\_seek[​](#input_format_parquet_local_file_min_bytes_for_seek "Direct link to input_format_parquet_local_file_min_bytes_for_seek")



Min bytes required for local read (file) to do seek, instead of read with ignore in Parquet input format


## input\_format\_parquet\_local\_time\_as\_utc[​](#input_format_parquet_local_time_as_utc "Direct link to input_format_parquet_local_time_as_utc")




Determines the data type used by schema inference for Parquet timestamps with isAdjustedToUTC\=false. If true: DateTime64(..., 'UTC'), if false: DateTime64(...). Neither behavior is fully correct as ClickHouse doesn't have a data type for local wall\-clock time. Counterintuitively, 'true' is probably the less incorrect option, because formatting the 'UTC' timestamp as String will produce representation of the correct local time.


## input\_format\_parquet\_max\_block\_size[​](#input_format_parquet_max_block_size "Direct link to input_format_parquet_max_block_size")




Max block size for parquet reader.


## input\_format\_parquet\_memory\_high\_watermark[​](#input_format_parquet_memory_high_watermark "Direct link to input_format_parquet_memory_high_watermark")




Approximate memory limit for Parquet reader v3\. Limits how many row groups or columns can be read in parallel. When reading multiple files in one query, the limit is on total memory usage across those files.


## input\_format\_parquet\_memory\_low\_watermark[​](#input_format_parquet_memory_low_watermark "Direct link to input_format_parquet_memory_low_watermark")




Schedule prefetches more aggressively if memory usage is below than threshold. Potentially useful e.g. if there are many small bloom filters to read over network.


## input\_format\_parquet\_page\_filter\_push\_down[​](#input_format_parquet_page_filter_push_down "Direct link to input_format_parquet_page_filter_push_down")




Skip pages using min/max values from column index.


## input\_format\_parquet\_prefer\_block\_bytes[​](#input_format_parquet_prefer_block_bytes "Direct link to input_format_parquet_prefer_block_bytes")




Average block bytes output by parquet reader


## input\_format\_parquet\_preserve\_order[​](#input_format_parquet_preserve_order "Direct link to input_format_parquet_preserve_order")




Avoid reordering rows when reading from Parquet files. Not recommended as row ordering is generally not guaranteed, and other parts of query pipeline may break it. Use `ORDER BY _row_number` instead.


## input\_format\_parquet\_skip\_columns\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_parquet_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_parquet_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference")



Skip columns with unsupported types while schema inference for format Parquet


## input\_format\_parquet\_use\_offset\_index[​](#input_format_parquet_use_offset_index "Direct link to input_format_parquet_use_offset_index")




Minor tweak to how pages are read from parquet file when no page filtering is used.


## input\_format\_parquet\_verify\_checksums[​](#input_format_parquet_verify_checksums "Direct link to input_format_parquet_verify_checksums")




Verify page checksums when reading parquet files.


## input\_format\_protobuf\_flatten\_google\_wrappers[​](#input_format_protobuf_flatten_google_wrappers "Direct link to input_format_protobuf_flatten_google_wrappers")



Enable Google wrappers for regular non\-nested columns, e.g. google.protobuf.StringValue 'str' for String column 'str'. For Nullable columns empty wrappers are recognized as defaults, and missing as nulls


## input\_format\_protobuf\_oneof\_presence[​](#input_format_protobuf_oneof_presence "Direct link to input_format_protobuf_oneof_presence")




Indicate which field of protobuf oneof was found by means of setting enum value in a special colum


## input\_format\_protobuf\_skip\_fields\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_protobuf_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_protobuf_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference")



Skip fields with unsupported types while schema inference for format Protobuf


## input\_format\_record\_errors\_file\_path[​](#input_format_record_errors_file_path "Direct link to input_format_record_errors_file_path")


Path of the file used to record errors while reading text formats (CSV, TSV).


## input\_format\_skip\_unknown\_fields[​](#input_format_skip_unknown_fields "Direct link to input_format_skip_unknown_fields")




Enables or disables skipping insertion of extra data.


When writing data, ClickHouse throws an exception if input data contain columns that do not exist in the target table. If skipping is enabled, ClickHouse does not insert extra data and does not throw an exception.


Supported formats:


- [JSONEachRow](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats)
- [BSONEachRow](/docs/interfaces/formats/BSONEachRow) (and other JSON formats)
- [TSKV](/docs/interfaces/formats/TSKV)
- All formats with suffixes WithNames/WithNamesAndTypes
- [MySQLDump](/docs/interfaces/formats/MySQLDump)
- [Native](/docs/interfaces/formats/Native)


Possible values:


- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.


## input\_format\_try\_infer\_dates[​](#input_format_try_infer_dates "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_dates")



If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type `Date` from string fields in schema inference for text formats. If all fields from a column in input data were successfully parsed as dates, the result type will be `Date`, if at least one field was not parsed as date, the result type will be `String`.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_try\_infer\_datetimes[​](#input_format_try_infer_datetimes "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_datetimes")



If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type `DateTime64` from string fields in schema inference for text formats. If all fields from a column in input data were successfully parsed as datetimes, the result type will be `DateTime64`, if at least one field was not parsed as datetime, the result type will be `String`.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_try\_infer\_datetimes\_only\_datetime64[​](#input_format_try_infer_datetimes_only_datetime64 "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_datetimes_only_datetime64")




When input\_format\_try\_infer\_datetimes is enabled, infer only DateTime64 but not DateTime types


## input\_format\_try\_infer\_exponent\_floats[​](#input_format_try_infer_exponent_floats "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_exponent_floats")




Try to infer floats in exponential notation while schema inference in text formats (except JSON, where exponent numbers are always inferred)


## input\_format\_try\_infer\_integers[​](#input_format_try_infer_integers "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_integers")



If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer integers instead of floats in schema inference for text formats. If all numbers in the column from input data are integers, the result type will be `Int64`, if at least one number is float, the result type will be `Float64`.


Enabled by default.


## input\_format\_try\_infer\_variants[​](#input_format_try_infer_variants "Direct link to input_format_try_infer_variants")




If enabled, ClickHouse will try to infer type [`Variant`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/variant) in schema inference for text formats when there is more than one possible type for column/array elements.


Possible values:


- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.


## input\_format\_tsv\_allow\_variable\_number\_of\_columns[​](#input_format_tsv_allow_variable_number_of_columns "Direct link to input_format_tsv_allow_variable_number_of_columns")



Ignore extra columns in TSV input (if file has more columns than expected) and treat missing fields in TSV input as default values


## input\_format\_tsv\_crlf\_end\_of\_line[​](#input_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line "Direct link to input_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line")




If it is set true, file function will read TSV format with \\r\\n instead of \\n.


## input\_format\_tsv\_detect\_header[​](#input_format_tsv_detect_header "Direct link to input_format_tsv_detect_header")




Automatically detect header with names and types in TSV format


## input\_format\_tsv\_empty\_as\_default[​](#input_format_tsv_empty_as_default "Direct link to input_format_tsv_empty_as_default")



Treat empty fields in TSV input as default values.


## input\_format\_tsv\_enum\_as\_number[​](#input_format_tsv_enum_as_number "Direct link to input_format_tsv_enum_as_number")



Treat inserted enum values in TSV formats as enum indices.


## input\_format\_tsv\_skip\_first\_lines[​](#input_format_tsv_skip_first_lines "Direct link to input_format_tsv_skip_first_lines")



Skip specified number of lines at the beginning of data in TSV format


## input\_format\_tsv\_skip\_trailing\_empty\_lines[​](#input_format_tsv_skip_trailing_empty_lines "Direct link to input_format_tsv_skip_trailing_empty_lines")



Skip trailing empty lines in TSV format


## input\_format\_tsv\_use\_best\_effort\_in\_schema\_inference[​](#input_format_tsv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference "Direct link to input_format_tsv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference")



Use some tweaks and heuristics to infer schema in TSV format


## input\_format\_values\_accurate\_types\_of\_literals[​](#input_format_values_accurate_types_of_literals "Direct link to input_format_values_accurate_types_of_literals")



For Values format: when parsing and interpreting expressions using template, check actual type of literal to avoid possible overflow and precision issues.


## input\_format\_values\_deduce\_templates\_of\_expressions[​](#input_format_values_deduce_templates_of_expressions "Direct link to input_format_values_deduce_templates_of_expressions")



For Values format: if the field could not be parsed by streaming parser, run SQL parser, deduce template of the SQL expression, try to parse all rows using template and then interpret expression for all rows.


## input\_format\_values\_interpret\_expressions[​](#input_format_values_interpret_expressions "Direct link to input_format_values_interpret_expressions")



For Values format: if the field could not be parsed by streaming parser, run SQL parser and try to interpret it as SQL expression.


## input\_format\_with\_names\_use\_header[​](#input_format_with_names_use_header "Direct link to input_format_with_names_use_header")




Enables or disables checking the column order when inserting data.


To improve insert performance, we recommend disabling this check if you are sure that the column order of the input data is the same as in the target table.


Supported formats:


- [CSVWithNames](/docs/interfaces/formats/CSVWithNames)
- [CSVWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/CSVWithNamesAndTypes)
- [TabSeparatedWithNames](/docs/interfaces/formats/TabSeparatedWithNames)
- [TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactEachRowWithNames](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactEachRowWithNames)
- [JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNames](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNames)
- [JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [RowBinaryWithNames](/docs/interfaces/formats/RowBinaryWithNames)
- [RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes)
- [CustomSeparatedWithNames](/docs/interfaces/formats/CustomSeparatedWithNames)
- [CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)


Possible values:


- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.


## input\_format\_with\_types\_use\_header[​](#input_format_with_types_use_header "Direct link to input_format_with_types_use_header")



Controls whether format parser should check if data types from the input data match data types from the target table.


Supported formats:


- [CSVWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/CSVWithNamesAndTypes)
- [TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/TabSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONCompactStringsEachRowWithNamesAndTypes)
- [RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes)
- [CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes](/docs/interfaces/formats/CustomSeparatedWithNamesAndTypes)


Possible values:


- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.


## insert\_distributed\_one\_random\_shard[​](#insert_distributed_one_random_shard "Direct link to insert_distributed_one_random_shard")



Enables or disables random shard insertion into a [Distributed](/docs/engines/table-engines/special/distributed) table when there is no distributed key.


By default, when inserting data into a `Distributed` table with more than one shard, the ClickHouse server will reject any insertion request if there is no distributed key. When `insert_distributed_one_random_shard = 1`, insertions are allowed and data is forwarded randomly among all shards.


Possible values:


- 0 — Insertion is rejected if there are multiple shards and no distributed key is given.
- 1 — Insertion is done randomly among all available shards when no distributed key is given.


## interval\_output\_format[​](#interval_output_format "Direct link to interval_output_format")



Allows choosing different output formats of the text representation of interval types.


Possible values:


- `kusto` \- KQL\-style output format.


ClickHouse outputs intervals in [KQL format](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-timespan-format-strings#the-constant-c-format-specifier). For example, `toIntervalDay(2)` would be formatted as `2.00:00:00`. Please note that for interval types of varying length (ie. `IntervalMonth` and `IntervalYear`) the average number of seconds per interval is taken into account.
- `numeric` \- Numeric output format.


ClickHouse outputs intervals as their underlying numeric representation. For example, `toIntervalDay(2)` would be formatted as `2`.


See also:


- [Interval](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/special-data-types/interval)


## into\_outfile\_create\_parent\_directories[​](#into_outfile_create_parent_directories "Direct link to into_outfile_create_parent_directories")



Automatically create parent directories when using INTO OUTFILE if they do not already exists.


## json\_type\_escape\_dots\_in\_keys[​](#json_type_escape_dots_in_keys "Direct link to json_type_escape_dots_in_keys")



When enabled, dots in JSON keys will be escaped during parsing.


## max\_dynamic\_subcolumns\_in\_json\_type\_parsing[​](#max_dynamic_subcolumns_in_json_type_parsing "Direct link to max_dynamic_subcolumns_in_json_type_parsing")



The maximum number of dynamic subcolumns that can be created in every column during parsing of JSON column.
It allows to control the number of dynamic subcolumns during parsing regardless of dynamic parameters specified in the data type.


## output\_format\_arrow\_compression\_method[​](#output_format_arrow_compression_method "Direct link to output_format_arrow_compression_method")




Compression method for Arrow output format. Supported codecs: lz4\_frame, zstd, none (uncompressed)


## output\_format\_arrow\_date\_as\_uint16[​](#output_format_arrow_date_as_uint16 "Direct link to output_format_arrow_date_as_uint16")




Write Date values as plain 16\-bit numbers (read back as UInt16\), instead of converting to a 32\-bit Arrow DATE32 type (read back as Date32\).


## output\_format\_arrow\_fixed\_string\_as\_fixed\_byte\_array[​](#output_format_arrow_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array "Direct link to output_format_arrow_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array")




Use Arrow FIXED\_SIZE\_BINARY type instead of Binary for FixedString columns.


## output\_format\_arrow\_low\_cardinality\_as\_dictionary[​](#output_format_arrow_low_cardinality_as_dictionary "Direct link to output_format_arrow_low_cardinality_as_dictionary")



Enable output LowCardinality type as Dictionary Arrow type


## output\_format\_arrow\_string\_as\_string[​](#output_format_arrow_string_as_string "Direct link to output_format_arrow_string_as_string")




Use Arrow String type instead of Binary for String columns


## output\_format\_arrow\_unsupported\_types\_as\_binary[​](#output_format_arrow_unsupported_types_as_binary "Direct link to output_format_arrow_unsupported_types_as_binary")




Output types having no conversion as raw binary data. If false \- such types would raise UNKNOWN\_TYPE exception.


## output\_format\_arrow\_use\_64\_bit\_indexes\_for\_dictionary[​](#output_format_arrow_use_64_bit_indexes_for_dictionary "Direct link to output_format_arrow_use_64_bit_indexes_for_dictionary")




Always use 64 bit integers for dictionary indexes in Arrow format


## output\_format\_arrow\_use\_signed\_indexes\_for\_dictionary[​](#output_format_arrow_use_signed_indexes_for_dictionary "Direct link to output_format_arrow_use_signed_indexes_for_dictionary")




Use signed integers for dictionary indexes in Arrow format


## output\_format\_avro\_codec[​](#output_format_avro_codec "Direct link to output_format_avro_codec")


Compression codec used for output. Possible values: 'null', 'deflate', 'snappy', 'zstd'.


## output\_format\_avro\_confluent\_subject[​](#output_format_avro_confluent_subject "Direct link to output_format_avro_confluent_subject")



For AvroConfluent output format: the subject name under which the schema is registered in the Confluent Schema Registry. Required when writing AvroConfluent output.


## output\_format\_avro\_rows\_in\_file[​](#output_format_avro_rows_in_file "Direct link to output_format_avro_rows_in_file")



Max rows in a file (if permitted by storage)


## output\_format\_avro\_string\_column\_pattern[​](#output_format_avro_string_column_pattern "Direct link to output_format_avro_string_column_pattern")


For Avro format: regexp of String columns to select as AVRO string.


## output\_format\_avro\_sync\_interval[​](#output_format_avro_sync_interval "Direct link to output_format_avro_sync_interval")



Sync interval in bytes.


## output\_format\_binary\_encode\_types\_in\_binary\_format[​](#output_format_binary_encode_types_in_binary_format "Direct link to output_format_binary_encode_types_in_binary_format")




Write data types in binary format instead of type names in RowBinaryWithNamesAndTypes output format


## output\_format\_binary\_write\_json\_as\_string[​](#output_format_binary_write_json_as_string "Direct link to output_format_binary_write_json_as_string")




Write values of [JSON](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/newjson) data type as JSON [String](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/string) values in RowBinary output format.


## output\_format\_bson\_string\_as\_string[​](#output_format_bson_string_as_string "Direct link to output_format_bson_string_as_string")



Use BSON String type instead of Binary for String columns.


## output\_format\_compression\_level[​](#output_format_compression_level "Direct link to output_format_compression_level")




Default compression level if query output is compressed. The setting is applied when `SELECT` query has `INTO OUTFILE` or when writing to table functions `file`, `url`, `hdfs`, `s3`, or `azureBlobStorage`.


Possible values: from `1` to `22`


## output\_format\_compression\_zstd\_window\_log[​](#output_format_compression_zstd_window_log "Direct link to output_format_compression_zstd_window_log")




Can be used when the output compression method is `zstd`. If greater than `0`, this setting explicitly sets compression window size (power of `2`) and enables a long\-range mode for zstd compression. This can help to achieve a better compression ratio.


Possible values: non\-negative numbers. Note that if the value is too small or too big, `zstdlib` will throw an exception. Typical values are from `20` (window size \= `1MB`) to `30` (window size \= `1GB`).


## output\_format\_csv\_crlf\_end\_of\_line[​](#output_format_csv_crlf_end_of_line "Direct link to output_format_csv_crlf_end_of_line")



If it is set true, end of line in CSV format will be \\r\\n instead of \\n.


## output\_format\_csv\_serialize\_tuple\_into\_separate\_columns[​](#output_format_csv_serialize_tuple_into_separate_columns "Direct link to output_format_csv_serialize_tuple_into_separate_columns")




If it set to true, then Tuples in CSV format are serialized as separate columns (that is, their nesting in the tuple is lost)


## output\_format\_decimal\_trailing\_zeros[​](#output_format_decimal_trailing_zeros "Direct link to output_format_decimal_trailing_zeros")




Output trailing zeros when printing Decimal values. E.g. 1\.230000 instead of 1\.23\.


Disabled by default.


## output\_format\_json\_array\_of\_rows[​](#output_format_json_array_of_rows "Direct link to output_format_json_array_of_rows")



Enables the ability to output all rows as a JSON array in the [JSONEachRow](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) format.


Possible values:


- 1 — ClickHouse outputs all rows as an array, each row in the `JSONEachRow` format.
- 0 — ClickHouse outputs each row separately in the `JSONEachRow` format.


**Example of a query with the enabled setting**


Query:



```
SET output_format_json_array_of_rows = 1;
SELECT number FROM numbers(3) FORMAT JSONEachRow;

```

Result:



```
[
{"number":"0"},
{"number":"1"},
{"number":"2"}
]

```

**Example of a query with the disabled setting**


Query:



```
SET output_format_json_array_of_rows = 0;
SELECT number FROM numbers(3) FORMAT JSONEachRow;

```

Result:



```
{"number":"0"}
{"number":"1"}
{"number":"2"}

```

## output\_format\_json\_escape\_forward\_slashes[​](#output_format_json_escape_forward_slashes "Direct link to output_format_json_escape_forward_slashes")



Controls escaping forward slashes for string outputs in JSON output format. This is intended for compatibility with JavaScript. Don't confuse with backslashes that are always escaped.


Enabled by default.


## output\_format\_json\_map\_as\_array\_of\_tuples[​](#output_format_json_map_as_array_of_tuples "Direct link to output_format_json_map_as_array_of_tuples")




Serialize maps columns as JSON arrays of tuples.


Disabled by default.


## output\_format\_json\_named\_tuples\_as\_objects[​](#output_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects "Direct link to output_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects")




Serialize named tuple columns as JSON objects.


Enabled by default.


## output\_format\_json\_pretty\_print[​](#output_format_json_pretty_print "Direct link to output_format_json_pretty_print")




This setting determines how nested structures such as Tuples, Maps, and Arrays are displayed within the `data` array when using the JSON output format.


For example, instead of output:



```
"data":
[
  {
    "tuple": {"a":1,"b":2,"c":3},
    "array": [1,2,3],
    "map": {"a":1,"b":2,"c":3}
  }
],

```

The output will be formatted as:



```
"data":
[
    {
        "tuple": {
            "a": 1,
            "b": 2,
            "c": 3
        },
        "array": [
            1,
            2,
            3
        ],
        "map": {
            "a": 1,
            "b": 2,
            "c": 3
        }
    }
],

```

Enabled by default.


## output\_format\_json\_quote\_64bit\_floats[​](#output_format_json_quote_64bit_floats "Direct link to output_format_json_quote_64bit_floats")



Controls quoting of 64\-bit [floats](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/float) when they are output in JSON\* formats.


Disabled by default.


## output\_format\_json\_quote\_64bit\_integers[​](#output_format_json_quote_64bit_integers "Direct link to output_format_json_quote_64bit_integers")




Controls quoting of 64\-bit or bigger [integers](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint) (like `UInt64` or `Int128`) when they are output in a [JSON](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSON) format.
Such integers are enclosed in quotes by default. This behavior is compatible with most JavaScript implementations.


Possible values:


- 0 — Integers are output without quotes.
- 1 — Integers are enclosed in quotes.


## output\_format\_json\_quote\_decimals[​](#output_format_json_quote_decimals "Direct link to output_format_json_quote_decimals")



Controls quoting of decimals in JSON output formats.


Disabled by default.


## output\_format\_json\_quote\_denormals[​](#output_format_json_quote_denormals "Direct link to output_format_json_quote_denormals")



Enables `+nan`, `-nan`, `+inf`, `-inf` outputs in [JSON](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSON) output format.


Possible values:


- 0 — Disabled.
- 1 — Enabled.


**Example**


Consider the following table `account_orders`:



```
┌─id─┬─name───┬─duration─┬─period─┬─area─┐
│  1 │ Andrew │       20 │      0 │  400 │
│  2 │ John   │       40 │      0 │    0 │
│  3 │ Bob    │       15 │      0 │ -100 │
└────┴────────┴──────────┴────────┴──────┘

```

When `output_format_json_quote_denormals = 0`, the query returns `null` values in output:



```
SELECT area/period FROM account_orders FORMAT JSON;

```


```
{
        "meta":
        [
                {
                        "name": "divide(area, period)",
                        "type": "Float64"
                }
        ],

        "data":
        [
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": null
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": null
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": null
                }
        ],

        "rows": 3,

        "statistics":
        {
                "elapsed": 0.003648093,
                "rows_read": 3,
                "bytes_read": 24
        }
}

```

When `output_format_json_quote_denormals = 1`, the query returns:



```
{
        "meta":
        [
                {
                        "name": "divide(area, period)",
                        "type": "Float64"
                }
        ],

        "data":
        [
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": "inf"
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": "-nan"
                },
                {
                        "divide(area, period)": "-inf"
                }
        ],

        "rows": 3,

        "statistics":
        {
                "elapsed": 0.000070241,
                "rows_read": 3,
                "bytes_read": 24
        }
}

```

## output\_format\_json\_skip\_null\_value\_in\_named\_tuples[​](#output_format_json_skip_null_value_in_named_tuples "Direct link to output_format_json_skip_null_value_in_named_tuples")



Skip key value pairs with null value when serialize named tuple columns as JSON objects. It is only valid when output\_format\_json\_named\_tuples\_as\_objects is true.


## output\_format\_json\_validate\_utf8[​](#output_format_json_validate_utf8 "Direct link to output_format_json_validate_utf8")



Controls validation of UTF\-8 sequences in JSON output formats, doesn't impact formats JSON/JSONCompact/JSONColumnsWithMetadata, they always validate UTF\-8\.


Disabled by default.


## output\_format\_markdown\_escape\_special\_characters[​](#output_format_markdown_escape_special_characters "Direct link to output_format_markdown_escape_special_characters")



When enabled, escape special characters in Markdown.


[Common Mark](https://spec.commonmark.org/0.30/#example-12) defines the following special characters that can be escaped by :



```
! " # $ % & ' ( ) * + , - . / : ; < = > ? @ [ \ ] ^ _ ` { | } ~

```

Possible values:


- 0 — Disable.
- 1 — Enable.


## output\_format\_msgpack\_uuid\_representation[​](#output_format_msgpack_uuid_representation "Direct link to output_format_msgpack_uuid_representation")



The way how to output UUID in MsgPack format.


## output\_format\_native\_encode\_types\_in\_binary\_format[​](#output_format_native_encode_types_in_binary_format "Direct link to output_format_native_encode_types_in_binary_format")




Write data types in binary format instead of type names in Native output format


## output\_format\_native\_use\_flattened\_dynamic\_and\_json\_serialization[​](#output_format_native_use_flattened_dynamic_and_json_serialization "Direct link to output_format_native_use_flattened_dynamic_and_json_serialization")




Write data of [JSON](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/newjson) and [Dynamic](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/dynamic) columns in a flattened format (all types/paths as separate subcolumns).


## output\_format\_native\_write\_json\_as\_string[​](#output_format_native_write_json_as_string "Direct link to output_format_native_write_json_as_string")




Write data of [JSON](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/newjson) column as [String](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/string) column containing JSON strings instead of default native JSON serialization.


## output\_format\_orc\_compression\_block\_size[​](#output_format_orc_compression_block_size "Direct link to output_format_orc_compression_block_size")




The size of the compression block in bytes for ORC output format.


## output\_format\_orc\_compression\_method[​](#output_format_orc_compression_method "Direct link to output_format_orc_compression_method")




Compression method for ORC output format. Supported codecs: lz4, snappy, zlib, zstd, none (uncompressed)


## output\_format\_orc\_dictionary\_key\_size\_threshold[​](#output_format_orc_dictionary_key_size_threshold "Direct link to output_format_orc_dictionary_key_size_threshold")




For a string column in ORC output format, if the number of distinct values is greater than this fraction of the total number of non\-null rows, turn off dictionary encoding. Otherwise dictionary encoding is enabled


## output\_format\_orc\_row\_index\_stride[​](#output_format_orc_row_index_stride "Direct link to output_format_orc_row_index_stride")



Target row index stride in ORC output format


## output\_format\_orc\_string\_as\_string[​](#output_format_orc_string_as_string "Direct link to output_format_orc_string_as_string")




Use ORC String type instead of Binary for String columns


## output\_format\_orc\_writer\_time\_zone\_name[​](#output_format_orc_writer_time_zone_name "Direct link to output_format_orc_writer_time_zone_name")




The time zone name for ORC writer, the default ORC writer's time zone is GMT.


## output\_format\_parallel\_formatting[​](#output_format_parallel_formatting "Direct link to output_format_parallel_formatting")



Enables or disables parallel formatting of data formats. Supported only for [TSV](/docs/interfaces/formats/TabSeparated), [TSKV](/docs/interfaces/formats/TSKV), [CSV](/docs/interfaces/formats/CSV) and [JSONEachRow](/docs/interfaces/formats/JSONEachRow) formats.


Possible values:


- 1 — Enabled.
- 0 — Disabled.


## output\_format\_parquet\_batch\_size[​](#output_format_parquet_batch_size "Direct link to output_format_parquet_batch_size")



Check page size every this many rows. Consider decreasing if you have columns with average values size above a few KBs.


## output\_format\_parquet\_bloom\_filter\_bits\_per\_value[​](#output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_bits_per_value "Direct link to output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_bits_per_value")




Approximate number of bits to use for each distinct value in parquet bloom filters. Estimated false positive rates:


- 6 bits \- 10%
- 10\.5 bits \- 1%
- 16\.9 bits \- 0\.1%
- 26\.4 bits \- 0\.01%
- 41 bits \- 0\.001%


## output\_format\_parquet\_bloom\_filter\_flush\_threshold\_bytes[​](#output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_flush_threshold_bytes "Direct link to output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_flush_threshold_bytes")




Where in the parquet file to place the bloom filters. Bloom filters will be written in groups of approximately this size. In particular:


- if 0, each row group's bloom filters are written immediately after the row group,
- if greater than the total size of all bloom filters, bloom filters for all row groups will be accumulated in memory, then written together near the end of the file,
- otherwise, bloom filters will be accumulated in memory and written out whenever their total size goes above this value.


## output\_format\_parquet\_compression\_method[​](#output_format_parquet_compression_method "Direct link to output_format_parquet_compression_method")




Compression method for Parquet output format. Supported codecs: snappy, lz4, brotli, zstd, gzip, none (uncompressed)


## output\_format\_parquet\_data\_page\_size[​](#output_format_parquet_data_page_size "Direct link to output_format_parquet_data_page_size")



Target page size in bytes, before compression.


## output\_format\_parquet\_date\_as\_uint16[​](#output_format_parquet_date_as_uint16 "Direct link to output_format_parquet_date_as_uint16")




Write Date values as plain 16\-bit numbers (read back as UInt16\), instead of converting to a 32\-bit parquet DATE type (read back as Date32\).


## output\_format\_parquet\_datetime\_as\_uint32[​](#output_format_parquet_datetime_as_uint32 "Direct link to output_format_parquet_datetime_as_uint32")




Write DateTime values as raw unix timestamp (read back as UInt32\), instead of converting to milliseconds (read back as DateTime64(3\)).


## output\_format\_parquet\_enum\_as\_byte\_array[​](#output_format_parquet_enum_as_byte_array "Direct link to output_format_parquet_enum_as_byte_array")




Write enum using parquet physical type: BYTE\_ARRAY and logical type: ENUM


## output\_format\_parquet\_fixed\_string\_as\_fixed\_byte\_array[​](#output_format_parquet_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array "Direct link to output_format_parquet_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array")




Use Parquet FIXED\_LEN\_BYTE\_ARRAY type instead of Binary for FixedString columns.


## output\_format\_parquet\_geometadata[​](#output_format_parquet_geometadata "Direct link to output_format_parquet_geometadata")




Allow to write information about geo columns in parquet metadata and encode columns in WKB format.


## output\_format\_parquet\_max\_dictionary\_size[​](#output_format_parquet_max_dictionary_size "Direct link to output_format_parquet_max_dictionary_size")




If dictionary size grows bigger than this many bytes, switch to encoding without dictionary. Set to 0 to disable dictionary encoding.


## output\_format\_parquet\_parallel\_encoding[​](#output_format_parquet_parallel_encoding "Direct link to output_format_parquet_parallel_encoding")



Do Parquet encoding in multiple threads.


## output\_format\_parquet\_row\_group\_size[​](#output_format_parquet_row_group_size "Direct link to output_format_parquet_row_group_size")



Target row group size in rows.


## output\_format\_parquet\_row\_group\_size\_bytes[​](#output_format_parquet_row_group_size_bytes "Direct link to output_format_parquet_row_group_size_bytes")



Target row group size in bytes, before compression.


## output\_format\_parquet\_string\_as\_string[​](#output_format_parquet_string_as_string "Direct link to output_format_parquet_string_as_string")




Use Parquet String type instead of Binary for String columns.


## output\_format\_parquet\_write\_bloom\_filter[​](#output_format_parquet_write_bloom_filter "Direct link to output_format_parquet_write_bloom_filter")




Write bloom filters in parquet files.


## output\_format\_parquet\_write\_checksums[​](#output_format_parquet_write_checksums "Direct link to output_format_parquet_write_checksums")




Put crc32 checksums in parquet page headers.


## output\_format\_parquet\_write\_page\_index[​](#output_format_parquet_write_page_index "Direct link to output_format_parquet_write_page_index")




Write column index and offset index (i.e. statistics about each data page, which may be used for filter pushdown on read) into parquet files.


## output\_format\_pretty\_color[​](#output_format_pretty_color "Direct link to output_format_pretty_color")




Use ANSI escape sequences in Pretty formats. 0 \- disabled, 1 \- enabled, 'auto' \- enabled if a terminal.


## output\_format\_pretty\_display\_footer\_column\_names[​](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names "Direct link to output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names")




Display column names in the footer if there are many table rows.


Possible values:


- 0 — No column names are displayed in the footer.
- 1 — Column names are displayed in the footer if row count is greater than or equal to the threshold value set by [output\_format\_pretty\_display\_footer\_column\_names\_min\_rows](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows) (50 by default).


**Example**


Query:



```
SELECT *, toTypeName(*) FROM (SELECT * FROM system.numbers LIMIT 1000);

```

Result:



```
      ┌─number─┬─toTypeName(number)─┐
   1. │      0 │ UInt64             │
   2. │      1 │ UInt64             │
   3. │      2 │ UInt64             │
   ...
 999. │    998 │ UInt64             │
1000. │    999 │ UInt64             │
      └─number─┴─toTypeName(number)─┘

```

## output\_format\_pretty\_display\_footer\_column\_names\_min\_rows[​](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows "Direct link to output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows")




Sets the minimum number of rows for which a footer with column names will be displayed if setting [output\_format\_pretty\_display\_footer\_column\_names](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names) is enabled.


## output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical[​](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical "Direct link to output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical")




If enabled, and the table is wide but short, the Pretty format will output it as the Vertical format does.
See `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk` and `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width` for detailed tuning of this behavior.


## output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical\_max\_rows\_per\_chunk[​](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk "Direct link to output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk")




The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the number of records in a chunk is not more than the specified value.


## output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical\_min\_columns[​](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_columns "Direct link to output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_columns")




The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the number of columns is greater than the specified value.


## output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical\_min\_table\_width[​](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width "Direct link to output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width")




The fallback to Vertical format (see `output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical`) will be activated only if the sum of lengths of columns in a table is at least the specified value, or if at least one value contains a newline character.


## output\_format\_pretty\_glue\_chunks[​](#output_format_pretty_glue_chunks "Direct link to output_format_pretty_glue_chunks")




If the data rendered in Pretty formats arrived in multiple chunks, even after a delay, but the next chunk has the same column widths as the previous, use ANSI escape sequences to move back to the previous line and overwrite the footer of the previous chunk to continue it with the data of the new chunk. This makes the result more visually pleasant.


0 \- disabled, 1 \- enabled, 'auto' \- enabled if a terminal.


## output\_format\_pretty\_grid\_charset[​](#output_format_pretty_grid_charset "Direct link to output_format_pretty_grid_charset")



Charset for printing grid borders. Available charsets: ASCII, UTF\-8 (default).


## output\_format\_pretty\_highlight\_digit\_groups[​](#output_format_pretty_highlight_digit_groups "Direct link to output_format_pretty_highlight_digit_groups")




If enabled and if output is a terminal, highlight every digit corresponding to the number of thousands, millions, etc. with underline.


## output\_format\_pretty\_highlight\_trailing\_spaces[​](#output_format_pretty_highlight_trailing_spaces "Direct link to output_format_pretty_highlight_trailing_spaces")




If enabled and if output is a terminal, highlight trailing spaces with a gray color and underline.


## output\_format\_pretty\_max\_column\_name\_width\_cut\_to[​](#output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to "Direct link to output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to")




If the column name is too long, cut it to this length.
The column will be cut if it is longer than `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to` plus `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut`.


## output\_format\_pretty\_max\_column\_name\_width\_min\_chars\_to\_cut[​](#output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut "Direct link to output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut")




Minimum characters to cut if the column name is too long.
The column will be cut if it is longer than `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to` plus `output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut`.


## output\_format\_pretty\_max\_column\_pad\_width[​](#output_format_pretty_max_column_pad_width "Direct link to output_format_pretty_max_column_pad_width")



Maximum width to pad all values in a column in Pretty formats.


## output\_format\_pretty\_max\_rows[​](#output_format_pretty_max_rows "Direct link to output_format_pretty_max_rows")




Rows limit for Pretty formats.


## output\_format\_pretty\_max\_value\_width[​](#output_format_pretty_max_value_width "Direct link to output_format_pretty_max_value_width")



Maximum width of value to display in Pretty formats. If greater \- it will be cut.
The value 0 means \- never cut.


## output\_format\_pretty\_max\_value\_width\_apply\_for\_single\_value[​](#output_format_pretty_max_value_width_apply_for_single_value "Direct link to output_format_pretty_max_value_width_apply_for_single_value")




Only cut values (see the `output_format_pretty_max_value_width` setting) when it is not a single value in a block. Otherwise output it entirely, which is useful for the `SHOW CREATE TABLE` query.


## output\_format\_pretty\_multiline\_fields[​](#output_format_pretty_multiline_fields "Direct link to output_format_pretty_multiline_fields")




If enabled, Pretty formats will render multi\-line fields inside table cell, so the table's outline will be preserved.
If not, they will be rendered as is, potentially deforming the table (one upside of keeping it off is that copy\-pasting multi\-line values will be easier).


## output\_format\_pretty\_named\_tuples\_as\_json[​](#output_format_pretty_named_tuples_as_json "Direct link to output_format_pretty_named_tuples_as_json")




Controls whether named tuples in Pretty format are output as pretty\-printed JSON objects.


## output\_format\_pretty\_row\_numbers[​](#output_format_pretty_row_numbers "Direct link to output_format_pretty_row_numbers")




Add row numbers before each row for pretty output format


## output\_format\_pretty\_single\_large\_number\_tip\_threshold[​](#output_format_pretty_single_large_number_tip_threshold "Direct link to output_format_pretty_single_large_number_tip_threshold")




Print a readable number tip on the right side of the table if the block consists of a single number which exceeds this value (except 0\)


## output\_format\_pretty\_squash\_consecutive\_ms[​](#output_format_pretty_squash_consecutive_ms "Direct link to output_format_pretty_squash_consecutive_ms")




Wait for the next block for up to specified number of milliseconds and squash it to the previous before writing.
This avoids frequent output of too small blocks, but still allows to display data in a streaming fashion.


## output\_format\_pretty\_squash\_max\_wait\_ms[​](#output_format_pretty_squash_max_wait_ms "Direct link to output_format_pretty_squash_max_wait_ms")




Output the pending block in pretty formats if more than the specified number of milliseconds has passed since the previous output.


## output\_format\_protobuf\_nullables\_with\_google\_wrappers[​](#output_format_protobuf_nullables_with_google_wrappers "Direct link to output_format_protobuf_nullables_with_google_wrappers")



When serializing Nullable columns with Google wrappers, serialize default values as empty wrappers. If turned off, default and null values are not serialized


## output\_format\_schema[​](#output_format_schema "Direct link to output_format_schema")


The path to the file where the automatically generated schema will be saved in [Cap'n Proto](/docs/interfaces/formats/CapnProto) or [Protobuf](/docs/interfaces/formats/Protobuf) formats.


## output\_format\_sql\_insert\_include\_column\_names[​](#output_format_sql_insert_include_column_names "Direct link to output_format_sql_insert_include_column_names")



Include column names in INSERT query


## output\_format\_sql\_insert\_max\_batch\_size[​](#output_format_sql_insert_max_batch_size "Direct link to output_format_sql_insert_max_batch_size")



The maximum number of rows in one INSERT statement.


## output\_format\_sql\_insert\_quote\_names[​](#output_format_sql_insert_quote_names "Direct link to output_format_sql_insert_quote_names")



Quote column names with '\`' characters


## output\_format\_sql\_insert\_table\_name[​](#output_format_sql_insert_table_name "Direct link to output_format_sql_insert_table_name")



The name of table in the output INSERT query


## output\_format\_sql\_insert\_use\_replace[​](#output_format_sql_insert_use_replace "Direct link to output_format_sql_insert_use_replace")



Use REPLACE statement instead of INSERT


## output\_format\_trim\_fixed\_string[​](#output_format_trim_fixed_string "Direct link to output_format_trim_fixed_string")




Trim trailing null bytes from FixedString values in text output formats. E.g. `toFixedString('John', 8)` is printed as `John` instead of `John\0\0\0\0`.


## output\_format\_tsv\_crlf\_end\_of\_line[​](#output_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line "Direct link to output_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line")



If it is set true, end of line in TSV format will be \\r\\n instead of \\n.


## output\_format\_values\_escape\_quote\_with\_quote[​](#output_format_values_escape_quote_with_quote "Direct link to output_format_values_escape_quote_with_quote")




If true escape ' with '', otherwise quoted with \\'


## output\_format\_write\_statistics[​](#output_format_write_statistics "Direct link to output_format_write_statistics")



Write statistics about read rows, bytes, time elapsed in suitable output formats.


Enabled by default


## precise\_float\_parsing[​](#precise_float_parsing "Direct link to precise_float_parsing")



Prefer more precise (but slower) float parsing algorithm


## schema\_inference\_hints[​](#schema_inference_hints "Direct link to schema_inference_hints")


The list of column names and types to use as hints in schema inference for formats without schema.


Example:


Query:



```
desc format(JSONEachRow, '{"x" : 1, "y" : "String", "z" : "0.0.0.0" }') settings schema_inference_hints='x UInt8, z IPv4';

```

Result:



```
x   UInt8
y   Nullable(String)
z   IPv4

```

NoteIf the `schema_inference_hints` is not formatted properly, or if there is a typo or a wrong datatype, etc... the whole schema\_inference\_hints will be ignored.


## schema\_inference\_make\_columns\_nullable[​](#schema_inference_make_columns_nullable "Direct link to schema_inference_make_columns_nullable")



Controls making inferred types `Nullable` in schema inference.
Possible values:


- 0 \- the inferred type will never be `Nullable` (use input\_format\_null\_as\_default to control what do do with null values in this case),
- 1 \- all inferred types will be `Nullable`,
- 2 or `auto` \- the inferred type will be `Nullable` only if the column contains `NULL` in a sample that is parsed during schema inference or file metadata contains information about column nullability,
- 3 \- the inferred type nullability will match file metadata if the format has it (e.g. Parquet), always Nullable otherwise (e.g. CSV).


## schema\_inference\_make\_json\_columns\_nullable[​](#schema_inference_make_json_columns_nullable "Direct link to schema_inference_make_json_columns_nullable")



Controls making inferred JSON types `Nullable` in schema inference.
If this setting is enabled together with schema\_inference\_make\_columns\_nullable, inferred JSON type will be `Nullable`.


## schema\_inference\_mode[​](#schema_inference_mode "Direct link to schema_inference_mode")



Mode of schema inference. 'default' \- assume that all files have the same schema and schema can be inferred from any file, 'union' \- files can have different schemas and the resulting schema should be the a union of schemas of all files


## show\_create\_query\_identifier\_quoting\_rule[​](#show_create_query_identifier_quoting_rule "Direct link to show_create_query_identifier_quoting_rule")



Set the quoting rule for identifiers in SHOW CREATE query


## show\_create\_query\_identifier\_quoting\_style[​](#show_create_query_identifier_quoting_style "Direct link to show_create_query_identifier_quoting_style")



Set the quoting style for identifiers in SHOW CREATE query


## type\_json\_allow\_duplicated\_key\_with\_literal\_and\_nested\_object[​](#type_json_allow_duplicated_key_with_literal_and_nested_object "Direct link to type_json_allow_duplicated_key_with_literal_and_nested_object")



When enabled, JSONs like `{"a" : 42, "a" : {"b" : 42}}` where some key is duplicated but one of them is a nested object are allowed to be parsed.


## type\_json\_skip\_duplicated\_paths[​](#type_json_skip_duplicated_paths "Direct link to type_json_skip_duplicated_paths")



When enabled, during parsing JSON object into JSON type duplicated paths will be ignored and only the first one will be inserted instead of an exceptio


## type\_json\_skip\_invalid\_typed\_paths[​](#type_json_skip_invalid_typed_paths "Direct link to type_json_skip_invalid_typed_paths")



When enabled, fields with values that cannot be coerced to their declared type in JSON type columns with typed paths are skipped instead of throwing an error. Skipped fields are treated as missing and will use default/null values based on the typed path definition.


This setting only applies to JSON type columns (e.g., JSON(a Int64, b String)) where specific paths have declared types. It does not apply to regular JSON input formats like JSONEachRow when inserting into regular typed columns.


Possible values:


- 0 — Disable (throw error on type mismatch).
- 1 — Enable (skip field on type mismatch).


## type\_json\_use\_partial\_match\_to\_skip\_paths\_by\_regexp[​](#type_json_use_partial_match_to_skip_paths_by_regexp "Direct link to type_json_use_partial_match_to_skip_paths_by_regexp")



When enabled, during parsing JSON object into JSON type regular expressions specified using SKIP REGEXP will require partial match to skip a path. When disabled, full match will be required.


## validate\_experimental\_and\_suspicious\_types\_inside\_nested\_types[​](#validate_experimental_and_suspicious_types_inside_nested_types "Direct link to validate_experimental_and_suspicious_types_inside_nested_types")



Validate usage of experimental and suspicious types inside nested types like Array/Map/Tuple

[PreviousMergeTree tables settings](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings)[NextComposable protocols](/docs/operations/settings/composable-protocols)- [allow\_special\_bool\_values\_inside\_variant](#allow_special_bool_values_inside_variant)- [bool\_false\_representation](#bool_false_representation)- [bool\_true\_representation](#bool_true_representation)- [check\_conversion\_from\_numbers\_to\_enum](#check_conversion_from_numbers_to_enum)- [column\_names\_for\_schema\_inference](#column_names_for_schema_inference)- [date\_time\_64\_output\_format\_cut\_trailing\_zeros\_align\_to\_groups\_of\_thousands](#date_time_64_output_format_cut_trailing_zeros_align_to_groups_of_thousands)- [date\_time\_input\_format](#date_time_input_format)- [date\_time\_output\_format](#date_time_output_format)- [date\_time\_overflow\_behavior](#date_time_overflow_behavior)- [errors\_output\_format](#errors_output_format)- [format\_avro\_schema\_registry\_connection\_timeout](#format_avro_schema_registry_connection_timeout)- [format\_avro\_schema\_registry\_receive\_timeout](#format_avro_schema_registry_receive_timeout)- [format\_avro\_schema\_registry\_send\_timeout](#format_avro_schema_registry_send_timeout)- [format\_avro\_schema\_registry\_url](#format_avro_schema_registry_url)- [format\_binary\_max\_array\_size](#format_binary_max_array_size)- [format\_binary\_max\_object\_size](#format_binary_max_object_size)- [format\_binary\_max\_string\_size](#format_binary_max_string_size)- [format\_capn\_proto\_enum\_comparising\_mode](#format_capn_proto_enum_comparising_mode)- [format\_capn\_proto\_max\_message\_size](#format_capn_proto_max_message_size)- [format\_capn\_proto\_use\_autogenerated\_schema](#format_capn_proto_use_autogenerated_schema)- [format\_csv\_allow\_double\_quotes](#format_csv_allow_double_quotes)- [format\_csv\_allow\_single\_quotes](#format_csv_allow_single_quotes)- [format\_csv\_delimiter](#format_csv_delimiter)- [format\_csv\_null\_representation](#format_csv_null_representation)- [format\_custom\_escaping\_rule](#format_custom_escaping_rule)- [format\_custom\_field\_delimiter](#format_custom_field_delimiter)- [format\_custom\_result\_after\_delimiter](#format_custom_result_after_delimiter)- [format\_custom\_result\_before\_delimiter](#format_custom_result_before_delimiter)- [format\_custom\_row\_after\_delimiter](#format_custom_row_after_delimiter)- [format\_custom\_row\_before\_delimiter](#format_custom_row_before_delimiter)- [format\_custom\_row\_between\_delimiter](#format_custom_row_between_delimiter)- [format\_display\_secrets\_in\_show\_and\_select](#format_display_secrets_in_show_and_select)- [format\_json\_object\_each\_row\_column\_for\_object\_name](#format_json_object_each_row_column_for_object_name)- [format\_protobuf\_use\_autogenerated\_schema](#format_protobuf_use_autogenerated_schema)- [format\_regexp](#format_regexp)- [format\_regexp\_escaping\_rule](#format_regexp_escaping_rule)- [format\_regexp\_skip\_unmatched](#format_regexp_skip_unmatched)- [format\_schema](#format_schema)- [format\_schema\_message\_name](#format_schema_message_name)- [format\_schema\_source](#format_schema_source)- [format\_template\_resultset](#format_template_resultset)- [format\_template\_resultset\_format](#format_template_resultset_format)- [format\_template\_row](#format_template_row)- [format\_template\_row\_format](#format_template_row_format)- [format\_template\_rows\_between\_delimiter](#format_template_rows_between_delimiter)- [format\_tsv\_null\_representation](#format_tsv_null_representation)- [input\_format\_allow\_errors\_num](#input_format_allow_errors_num)- [input\_format\_allow\_errors\_ratio](#input_format_allow_errors_ratio)- [input\_format\_allow\_seeks](#input_format_allow_seeks)- [input\_format\_arrow\_allow\_missing\_columns](#input_format_arrow_allow_missing_columns)- [input\_format\_arrow\_case\_insensitive\_column\_matching](#input_format_arrow_case_insensitive_column_matching)- [input\_format\_arrow\_skip\_columns\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference](#input_format_arrow_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference)- [input\_format\_avro\_allow\_missing\_fields](#input_format_avro_allow_missing_fields)- [input\_format\_avro\_null\_as\_default](#input_format_avro_null_as_default)- [input\_format\_binary\_decode\_types\_in\_binary\_format](#input_format_binary_decode_types_in_binary_format)- [input\_format\_binary\_max\_type\_complexity](#input_format_binary_max_type_complexity)- [input\_format\_binary\_read\_json\_as\_string](#input_format_binary_read_json_as_string)- [input\_format\_bson\_skip\_fields\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference](#input_format_bson_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference)- [input\_format\_capn\_proto\_skip\_fields\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference](#input_format_capn_proto_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference)- [input\_format\_column\_name\_matching\_mode](#input_format_column_name_matching_mode)- [input\_format\_connection\_handling](#input_format_connection_handling)- [input\_format\_csv\_allow\_cr\_end\_of\_line](#input_format_csv_allow_cr_end_of_line)- [input\_format\_csv\_allow\_variable\_number\_of\_columns](#input_format_csv_allow_variable_number_of_columns)- [input\_format\_csv\_allow\_whitespace\_or\_tab\_as\_delimiter](#input_format_csv_allow_whitespace_or_tab_as_delimiter)- [input\_format\_csv\_arrays\_as\_nested\_csv](#input_format_csv_arrays_as_nested_csv)- [input\_format\_csv\_deserialize\_separate\_columns\_into\_tuple](#input_format_csv_deserialize_separate_columns_into_tuple)- [input\_format\_csv\_detect\_header](#input_format_csv_detect_header)- [input\_format\_csv\_empty\_as\_default](#input_format_csv_empty_as_default)- [input\_format\_csv\_enum\_as\_number](#input_format_csv_enum_as_number)- [input\_format\_csv\_skip\_first\_lines](#input_format_csv_skip_first_lines)- [input\_format\_csv\_skip\_trailing\_empty\_lines](#input_format_csv_skip_trailing_empty_lines)- [input\_format\_csv\_trim\_whitespaces](#input_format_csv_trim_whitespaces)- [input\_format\_csv\_try\_infer\_numbers\_from\_strings](#input_format_csv_try_infer_numbers_from_strings)- [input\_format\_csv\_try\_infer\_strings\_from\_quoted\_tuples](#input_format_csv_try_infer_strings_from_quoted_tuples)- [input\_format\_csv\_use\_best\_effort\_in\_schema\_inference](#input_format_csv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference)- [input\_format\_csv\_use\_default\_on\_bad\_values](#input_format_csv_use_default_on_bad_values)- [input\_format\_custom\_allow\_variable\_number\_of\_columns](#input_format_custom_allow_variable_number_of_columns)- [input\_format\_custom\_detect\_header](#input_format_custom_detect_header)- [input\_format\_custom\_skip\_trailing\_empty\_lines](#input_format_custom_skip_trailing_empty_lines)- [input\_format\_defaults\_for\_omitted\_fields](#input_format_defaults_for_omitted_fields)- [input\_format\_force\_null\_for\_omitted\_fields](#input_format_force_null_for_omitted_fields)- [input\_format\_hive\_text\_allow\_variable\_number\_of\_columns](#input_format_hive_text_allow_variable_number_of_columns)- [input\_format\_hive\_text\_collection\_items\_delimiter](#input_format_hive_text_collection_items_delimiter)- [input\_format\_hive\_text\_fields\_delimiter](#input_format_hive_text_fields_delimiter)- [input\_format\_hive\_text\_map\_keys\_delimiter](#input_format_hive_text_map_keys_delimiter)- [input\_format\_import\_nested\_json](#input_format_import_nested_json)- [input\_format\_ipv4\_default\_on\_conversion\_error](#input_format_ipv4_default_on_conversion_error)- [input\_format\_ipv6\_default\_on\_conversion\_error](#input_format_ipv6_default_on_conversion_error)- [input\_format\_json\_compact\_allow\_variable\_number\_of\_columns](#input_format_json_compact_allow_variable_number_of_columns)- [input\_format\_json\_defaults\_for\_missing\_elements\_in\_named\_tuple](#input_format_json_defaults_for_missing_elements_in_named_tuple)- [input\_format\_json\_empty\_as\_default](#input_format_json_empty_as_default)- [input\_format\_json\_ignore\_unknown\_keys\_in\_named\_tuple](#input_format_json_ignore_unknown_keys_in_named_tuple)- [input\_format\_json\_ignore\_unnecessary\_fields](#input_format_json_ignore_unnecessary_fields)- [input\_format\_json\_infer\_array\_of\_dynamic\_from\_array\_of\_different\_types](#input_format_json_infer_array_of_dynamic_from_array_of_different_types)- [input\_format\_json\_infer\_incomplete\_types\_as\_strings](#input_format_json_infer_incomplete_types_as_strings)- [input\_format\_json\_map\_as\_array\_of\_tuples](#input_format_json_map_as_array_of_tuples)- [input\_format\_json\_max\_depth](#input_format_json_max_depth)- [input\_format\_json\_named\_tuples\_as\_objects](#input_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects)- [input\_format\_json\_read\_arrays\_as\_strings](#input_format_json_read_arrays_as_strings)- [input\_format\_json\_read\_bools\_as\_numbers](#input_format_json_read_bools_as_numbers)- [input\_format\_json\_read\_bools\_as\_strings](#input_format_json_read_bools_as_strings)- [input\_format\_json\_read\_numbers\_as\_strings](#input_format_json_read_numbers_as_strings)- [input\_format\_json\_read\_objects\_as\_strings](#input_format_json_read_objects_as_strings)- [input\_format\_json\_throw\_on\_bad\_escape\_sequence](#input_format_json_throw_on_bad_escape_sequence)- [input\_format\_json\_try\_infer\_named\_tuples\_from\_objects](#input_format_json_try_infer_named_tuples_from_objects)- [input\_format\_json\_try\_infer\_numbers\_from\_strings](#input_format_json_try_infer_numbers_from_strings)- [input\_format\_json\_use\_string\_type\_for\_ambiguous\_paths\_in\_named\_tuples\_inference\_from\_objects](#input_format_json_use_string_type_for_ambiguous_paths_in_named_tuples_inference_from_objects)- [input\_format\_json\_validate\_types\_from\_metadata](#input_format_json_validate_types_from_metadata)- [input\_format\_max\_block\_size\_bytes](#input_format_max_block_size_bytes)- [input\_format\_max\_block\_wait\_ms](#input_format_max_block_wait_ms)- [input\_format\_max\_bytes\_to\_read\_for\_schema\_inference](#input_format_max_bytes_to_read_for_schema_inference)- [input\_format\_max\_rows\_to\_read\_for\_schema\_inference](#input_format_max_rows_to_read_for_schema_inference)- [input\_format\_msgpack\_number\_of\_columns](#input_format_msgpack_number_of_columns)- [input\_format\_mysql\_dump\_map\_column\_names](#input_format_mysql_dump_map_column_names)- [input\_format\_mysql\_dump\_table\_name](#input_format_mysql_dump_table_name)- [input\_format\_native\_allow\_types\_conversion](#input_format_native_allow_types_conversion)- [input\_format\_native\_decode\_types\_in\_binary\_format](#input_format_native_decode_types_in_binary_format)- [input\_format\_null\_as\_default](#input_format_null_as_default)- [input\_format\_orc\_allow\_missing\_columns](#input_format_orc_allow_missing_columns)- [input\_format\_orc\_case\_insensitive\_column\_matching](#input_format_orc_case_insensitive_column_matching)- [input\_format\_orc\_dictionary\_as\_low\_cardinality](#input_format_orc_dictionary_as_low_cardinality)- [input\_format\_orc\_filter\_push\_down](#input_format_orc_filter_push_down)- [input\_format\_orc\_reader\_time\_zone\_name](#input_format_orc_reader_time_zone_name)- [input\_format\_orc\_row\_batch\_size](#input_format_orc_row_batch_size)- [input\_format\_orc\_skip\_columns\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference](#input_format_orc_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference)- [input\_format\_orc\_use\_fast\_decoder](#input_format_orc_use_fast_decoder)- [input\_format\_parallel\_parsing](#input_format_parallel_parsing)- [input\_format\_parquet\_allow\_geoparquet\_parser](#input_format_parquet_allow_geoparquet_parser)- [input\_format\_parquet\_allow\_missing\_columns](#input_format_parquet_allow_missing_columns)- [input\_format\_parquet\_bloom\_filter\_push\_down](#input_format_parquet_bloom_filter_push_down)- [input\_format\_parquet\_case\_insensitive\_column\_matching](#input_format_parquet_case_insensitive_column_matching)- [input\_format\_parquet\_enable\_json\_parsing](#input_format_parquet_enable_json_parsing)- [input\_format\_parquet\_enable\_row\_group\_prefetch](#input_format_parquet_enable_row_group_prefetch)- [input\_format\_parquet\_filter\_push\_down](#input_format_parquet_filter_push_down)- [input\_format\_parquet\_local\_file\_min\_bytes\_for\_seek](#input_format_parquet_local_file_min_bytes_for_seek)- [input\_format\_parquet\_local\_time\_as\_utc](#input_format_parquet_local_time_as_utc)- [input\_format\_parquet\_max\_block\_size](#input_format_parquet_max_block_size)- [input\_format\_parquet\_memory\_high\_watermark](#input_format_parquet_memory_high_watermark)- [input\_format\_parquet\_memory\_low\_watermark](#input_format_parquet_memory_low_watermark)- [input\_format\_parquet\_page\_filter\_push\_down](#input_format_parquet_page_filter_push_down)- [input\_format\_parquet\_prefer\_block\_bytes](#input_format_parquet_prefer_block_bytes)- [input\_format\_parquet\_preserve\_order](#input_format_parquet_preserve_order)- [input\_format\_parquet\_skip\_columns\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference](#input_format_parquet_skip_columns_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference)- [input\_format\_parquet\_use\_offset\_index](#input_format_parquet_use_offset_index)- [input\_format\_parquet\_verify\_checksums](#input_format_parquet_verify_checksums)- [input\_format\_protobuf\_flatten\_google\_wrappers](#input_format_protobuf_flatten_google_wrappers)- [input\_format\_protobuf\_oneof\_presence](#input_format_protobuf_oneof_presence)- [input\_format\_protobuf\_skip\_fields\_with\_unsupported\_types\_in\_schema\_inference](#input_format_protobuf_skip_fields_with_unsupported_types_in_schema_inference)- [input\_format\_record\_errors\_file\_path](#input_format_record_errors_file_path)- [input\_format\_skip\_unknown\_fields](#input_format_skip_unknown_fields)- [input\_format\_try\_infer\_dates](#input_format_try_infer_dates)- [input\_format\_try\_infer\_datetimes](#input_format_try_infer_datetimes)- [input\_format\_try\_infer\_datetimes\_only\_datetime64](#input_format_try_infer_datetimes_only_datetime64)- [input\_format\_try\_infer\_exponent\_floats](#input_format_try_infer_exponent_floats)- [input\_format\_try\_infer\_integers](#input_format_try_infer_integers)- [input\_format\_try\_infer\_variants](#input_format_try_infer_variants)- [input\_format\_tsv\_allow\_variable\_number\_of\_columns](#input_format_tsv_allow_variable_number_of_columns)- [input\_format\_tsv\_crlf\_end\_of\_line](#input_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line)- [input\_format\_tsv\_detect\_header](#input_format_tsv_detect_header)- [input\_format\_tsv\_empty\_as\_default](#input_format_tsv_empty_as_default)- [input\_format\_tsv\_enum\_as\_number](#input_format_tsv_enum_as_number)- [input\_format\_tsv\_skip\_first\_lines](#input_format_tsv_skip_first_lines)- [input\_format\_tsv\_skip\_trailing\_empty\_lines](#input_format_tsv_skip_trailing_empty_lines)- [input\_format\_tsv\_use\_best\_effort\_in\_schema\_inference](#input_format_tsv_use_best_effort_in_schema_inference)- [input\_format\_values\_accurate\_types\_of\_literals](#input_format_values_accurate_types_of_literals)- [input\_format\_values\_deduce\_templates\_of\_expressions](#input_format_values_deduce_templates_of_expressions)- [input\_format\_values\_interpret\_expressions](#input_format_values_interpret_expressions)- [input\_format\_with\_names\_use\_header](#input_format_with_names_use_header)- [input\_format\_with\_types\_use\_header](#input_format_with_types_use_header)- [insert\_distributed\_one\_random\_shard](#insert_distributed_one_random_shard)- [interval\_output\_format](#interval_output_format)- [into\_outfile\_create\_parent\_directories](#into_outfile_create_parent_directories)- [json\_type\_escape\_dots\_in\_keys](#json_type_escape_dots_in_keys)- [max\_dynamic\_subcolumns\_in\_json\_type\_parsing](#max_dynamic_subcolumns_in_json_type_parsing)- [output\_format\_arrow\_compression\_method](#output_format_arrow_compression_method)- [output\_format\_arrow\_date\_as\_uint16](#output_format_arrow_date_as_uint16)- [output\_format\_arrow\_fixed\_string\_as\_fixed\_byte\_array](#output_format_arrow_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array)- [output\_format\_arrow\_low\_cardinality\_as\_dictionary](#output_format_arrow_low_cardinality_as_dictionary)- [output\_format\_arrow\_string\_as\_string](#output_format_arrow_string_as_string)- [output\_format\_arrow\_unsupported\_types\_as\_binary](#output_format_arrow_unsupported_types_as_binary)- [output\_format\_arrow\_use\_64\_bit\_indexes\_for\_dictionary](#output_format_arrow_use_64_bit_indexes_for_dictionary)- [output\_format\_arrow\_use\_signed\_indexes\_for\_dictionary](#output_format_arrow_use_signed_indexes_for_dictionary)- [output\_format\_avro\_codec](#output_format_avro_codec)- [output\_format\_avro\_confluent\_subject](#output_format_avro_confluent_subject)- [output\_format\_avro\_rows\_in\_file](#output_format_avro_rows_in_file)- [output\_format\_avro\_string\_column\_pattern](#output_format_avro_string_column_pattern)- [output\_format\_avro\_sync\_interval](#output_format_avro_sync_interval)- [output\_format\_binary\_encode\_types\_in\_binary\_format](#output_format_binary_encode_types_in_binary_format)- [output\_format\_binary\_write\_json\_as\_string](#output_format_binary_write_json_as_string)- [output\_format\_bson\_string\_as\_string](#output_format_bson_string_as_string)- [output\_format\_compression\_level](#output_format_compression_level)- [output\_format\_compression\_zstd\_window\_log](#output_format_compression_zstd_window_log)- [output\_format\_csv\_crlf\_end\_of\_line](#output_format_csv_crlf_end_of_line)- [output\_format\_csv\_serialize\_tuple\_into\_separate\_columns](#output_format_csv_serialize_tuple_into_separate_columns)- [output\_format\_decimal\_trailing\_zeros](#output_format_decimal_trailing_zeros)- [output\_format\_json\_array\_of\_rows](#output_format_json_array_of_rows)- [output\_format\_json\_escape\_forward\_slashes](#output_format_json_escape_forward_slashes)- [output\_format\_json\_map\_as\_array\_of\_tuples](#output_format_json_map_as_array_of_tuples)- [output\_format\_json\_named\_tuples\_as\_objects](#output_format_json_named_tuples_as_objects)- [output\_format\_json\_pretty\_print](#output_format_json_pretty_print)- [output\_format\_json\_quote\_64bit\_floats](#output_format_json_quote_64bit_floats)- [output\_format\_json\_quote\_64bit\_integers](#output_format_json_quote_64bit_integers)- [output\_format\_json\_quote\_decimals](#output_format_json_quote_decimals)- [output\_format\_json\_quote\_denormals](#output_format_json_quote_denormals)- [output\_format\_json\_skip\_null\_value\_in\_named\_tuples](#output_format_json_skip_null_value_in_named_tuples)- [output\_format\_json\_validate\_utf8](#output_format_json_validate_utf8)- [output\_format\_markdown\_escape\_special\_characters](#output_format_markdown_escape_special_characters)- [output\_format\_msgpack\_uuid\_representation](#output_format_msgpack_uuid_representation)- [output\_format\_native\_encode\_types\_in\_binary\_format](#output_format_native_encode_types_in_binary_format)- [output\_format\_native\_use\_flattened\_dynamic\_and\_json\_serialization](#output_format_native_use_flattened_dynamic_and_json_serialization)- [output\_format\_native\_write\_json\_as\_string](#output_format_native_write_json_as_string)- [output\_format\_orc\_compression\_block\_size](#output_format_orc_compression_block_size)- [output\_format\_orc\_compression\_method](#output_format_orc_compression_method)- [output\_format\_orc\_dictionary\_key\_size\_threshold](#output_format_orc_dictionary_key_size_threshold)- [output\_format\_orc\_row\_index\_stride](#output_format_orc_row_index_stride)- [output\_format\_orc\_string\_as\_string](#output_format_orc_string_as_string)- [output\_format\_orc\_writer\_time\_zone\_name](#output_format_orc_writer_time_zone_name)- [output\_format\_parallel\_formatting](#output_format_parallel_formatting)- [output\_format\_parquet\_batch\_size](#output_format_parquet_batch_size)- [output\_format\_parquet\_bloom\_filter\_bits\_per\_value](#output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_bits_per_value)- [output\_format\_parquet\_bloom\_filter\_flush\_threshold\_bytes](#output_format_parquet_bloom_filter_flush_threshold_bytes)- [output\_format\_parquet\_compression\_method](#output_format_parquet_compression_method)- [output\_format\_parquet\_data\_page\_size](#output_format_parquet_data_page_size)- [output\_format\_parquet\_date\_as\_uint16](#output_format_parquet_date_as_uint16)- [output\_format\_parquet\_datetime\_as\_uint32](#output_format_parquet_datetime_as_uint32)- [output\_format\_parquet\_enum\_as\_byte\_array](#output_format_parquet_enum_as_byte_array)- [output\_format\_parquet\_fixed\_string\_as\_fixed\_byte\_array](#output_format_parquet_fixed_string_as_fixed_byte_array)- [output\_format\_parquet\_geometadata](#output_format_parquet_geometadata)- [output\_format\_parquet\_max\_dictionary\_size](#output_format_parquet_max_dictionary_size)- [output\_format\_parquet\_parallel\_encoding](#output_format_parquet_parallel_encoding)- [output\_format\_parquet\_row\_group\_size](#output_format_parquet_row_group_size)- [output\_format\_parquet\_row\_group\_size\_bytes](#output_format_parquet_row_group_size_bytes)- [output\_format\_parquet\_string\_as\_string](#output_format_parquet_string_as_string)- [output\_format\_parquet\_write\_bloom\_filter](#output_format_parquet_write_bloom_filter)- [output\_format\_parquet\_write\_checksums](#output_format_parquet_write_checksums)- [output\_format\_parquet\_write\_page\_index](#output_format_parquet_write_page_index)- [output\_format\_pretty\_color](#output_format_pretty_color)- [output\_format\_pretty\_display\_footer\_column\_names](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names)- [output\_format\_pretty\_display\_footer\_column\_names\_min\_rows](#output_format_pretty_display_footer_column_names_min_rows)- [output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical)- [output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical\_max\_rows\_per\_chunk](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_max_rows_per_chunk)- [output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical\_min\_columns](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_columns)- [output\_format\_pretty\_fallback\_to\_vertical\_min\_table\_width](#output_format_pretty_fallback_to_vertical_min_table_width)- [output\_format\_pretty\_glue\_chunks](#output_format_pretty_glue_chunks)- [output\_format\_pretty\_grid\_charset](#output_format_pretty_grid_charset)- [output\_format\_pretty\_highlight\_digit\_groups](#output_format_pretty_highlight_digit_groups)- [output\_format\_pretty\_highlight\_trailing\_spaces](#output_format_pretty_highlight_trailing_spaces)- [output\_format\_pretty\_max\_column\_name\_width\_cut\_to](#output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_cut_to)- [output\_format\_pretty\_max\_column\_name\_width\_min\_chars\_to\_cut](#output_format_pretty_max_column_name_width_min_chars_to_cut)- [output\_format\_pretty\_max\_column\_pad\_width](#output_format_pretty_max_column_pad_width)- [output\_format\_pretty\_max\_rows](#output_format_pretty_max_rows)- [output\_format\_pretty\_max\_value\_width](#output_format_pretty_max_value_width)- [output\_format\_pretty\_max\_value\_width\_apply\_for\_single\_value](#output_format_pretty_max_value_width_apply_for_single_value)- [output\_format\_pretty\_multiline\_fields](#output_format_pretty_multiline_fields)- [output\_format\_pretty\_named\_tuples\_as\_json](#output_format_pretty_named_tuples_as_json)- [output\_format\_pretty\_row\_numbers](#output_format_pretty_row_numbers)- [output\_format\_pretty\_single\_large\_number\_tip\_threshold](#output_format_pretty_single_large_number_tip_threshold)- [output\_format\_pretty\_squash\_consecutive\_ms](#output_format_pretty_squash_consecutive_ms)- [output\_format\_pretty\_squash\_max\_wait\_ms](#output_format_pretty_squash_max_wait_ms)- [output\_format\_protobuf\_nullables\_with\_google\_wrappers](#output_format_protobuf_nullables_with_google_wrappers)- [output\_format\_schema](#output_format_schema)- [output\_format\_sql\_insert\_include\_column\_names](#output_format_sql_insert_include_column_names)- [output\_format\_sql\_insert\_max\_batch\_size](#output_format_sql_insert_max_batch_size)- [output\_format\_sql\_insert\_quote\_names](#output_format_sql_insert_quote_names)- [output\_format\_sql\_insert\_table\_name](#output_format_sql_insert_table_name)- [output\_format\_sql\_insert\_use\_replace](#output_format_sql_insert_use_replace)- [output\_format\_trim\_fixed\_string](#output_format_trim_fixed_string)- [output\_format\_tsv\_crlf\_end\_of\_line](#output_format_tsv_crlf_end_of_line)- [output\_format\_values\_escape\_quote\_with\_quote](#output_format_values_escape_quote_with_quote)- [output\_format\_write\_statistics](#output_format_write_statistics)- [precise\_float\_parsing](#precise_float_parsing)- [schema\_inference\_hints](#schema_inference_hints)- [schema\_inference\_make\_columns\_nullable](#schema_inference_make_columns_nullable)- [schema\_inference\_make\_json\_columns\_nullable](#schema_inference_make_json_columns_nullable)- [schema\_inference\_mode](#schema_inference_mode)- [show\_create\_query\_identifier\_quoting\_rule](#show_create_query_identifier_quoting_rule)- [show\_create\_query\_identifier\_quoting\_style](#show_create_query_identifier_quoting_style)- [type\_json\_allow\_duplicated\_key\_with\_literal\_and\_nested\_object](#type_json_allow_duplicated_key_with_literal_and_nested_object)- [type\_json\_skip\_duplicated\_paths](#type_json_skip_duplicated_paths)- [type\_json\_skip\_invalid\_typed\_paths](#type_json_skip_invalid_typed_paths)- [type\_json\_use\_partial\_match\_to\_skip\_paths\_by\_regexp](#type_json_use_partial_match_to_skip_paths_by_regexp)- [validate\_experimental\_and\_suspicious\_types\_inside\_nested\_types](#validate_experimental_and_suspicious_types_inside_nested_types)
Was this page helpful?
