---
source: blog
url: https://www.lens.xyz/
topic: from-rockset-to-clickhouse-how-lens-made-its-database-faster-and-more-efficient
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

Postgres database to manage user interactions and content. Instead of traditional RPC endpoints, a GraphQL API was implemented to make it easier for integrators (developers building on Lens Protocol) to interact with the blockchain and build front\-end applications.

According to the Lens team, this worked well initially. But as the platform grew, and as integrators requested more complex features, Postgres’s limitations became apparent. The data science team transitioned to Rockset, which offered better data processing capabilities, particularly for complex queries and aggregations.

## Performance challenges with Rockset [\#](/blog/rockset-migration-to-clickhouse-lens#performance-challenges-with-rockset)

Even after transitioning to Rockset, however, new challenges emerged. To ingest data from Postgres into Rockset, they had to use [AWS Database Migration Service](https://aws.amazon.com/dms/) (DMS) in conjunction with [Amazon Kinesis Data Streams](https://aws.amazon.com/kinesis/data-streams/). This process involved capturing changes from Postgres using DMS and then streaming that data through Kinesis to reach Rockset.

The Lens team found that having multiple layers added a lot of latency in terms of synchronization. The process added several seconds, sometimes even minutes of latency. For real\-time jobs, that was a big problem.

Another significant challenge the Lens team describes were the Rockset concurrent query limits. Rockset had predefined limits on the number of queries that could be executed simultaneously; when these limits were reached, Lens could either upgrade to a more expensive plan — which they did several times until costs became unfeasible— or additional queries had to wait, leading to delays in data processing. This was especially problematic for real\-time machine learning tasks, where timely data retrieval and processing are key. They tried custom solutions to work around these limits, but not only did the constraints persist, but they added complexity to the overall architecture, especially as Lens’ data processing demands grew.

Thus, the Lens team found itself in a process of finding a better database management solution.

## Migrating from Rockset to ClickHouse [\#](/blog/rockset-migration-to-clickhouse-lens#migrating-from-rockset-to-clickhouse)

As they explored Rockset alternatives for Lens, the team briefly considered Amazon Aurora, spinning up RDS clusters to manage their immediate data needs. However, Aurora was viewed as insufficient for Lens’ long\-term needs. They knew they needed a database that could handle high\-speed queries and scale efficiently as Lens Protocol grew.
