---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/enhancing-google-analytics-data-with-clickhouse
topic: building-a-rag-pipeline-for-google-analytics-with-clickhouse-and-amazon-bedrock
ch_version_introduced: '0.5078125'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

schema but also likely example queries for problems such as how to identify returning users or how the LLM should deal with less structured questions such as “Posts about Materialized views”. ## A little bit of research [\#](/blog/retrieval-augmented-generation-rag-with-clickhouse-bedrock#a-little-bit-of-research)

The foundation of our app is text to SQL. This is an active domain of research and thanks to the [Spider: Yale Semantic Parsing and Text\-to\-SQL Challenge](https://yale-lily.github.io/spider) it is relatively easy to see which approaches are leading in providing the best accuracy.

*“The goal of the Spider challenge is to develop natural language interfaces to cross\-domain databases. It consists of 10,181 questions and 5,693 unique complex SQL queries on 200 databases with multiple tables covering 138 different domains. To do well on it, systems must generalize well to not only new SQL queries but also new database schemas.”*

This specific challenge is more general than that of our Google Analytics question\-to\-text problem \- ours is domain\-specific, whereas Spider aims to measure the performance of cross\-domain zero\-shot performance. Despite this, the leader papers seemed worth exploring for inspiration. Reassuringly, the current leaders including [DAIL\-SQL](https://github.com/BeachWang/DAIL-SQL) rely on the principle of using prompt engineering and a RAG\-based approach.

The principle innovation with [DAIL\-SQL](https://github.com/BeachWang/DAIL-SQL) is to mask keywords (e.g. columns and values) in a set of possible useful prompt questions (the “candidate set”), with an embedding generated for the question. A “skeleton” query is then generated (and masked) using a specialist pre\-trained transformer model. Example questions for the prompt are in turn identified by comparing the question and its skeleton SQL against the candidate questions and their SQL. See [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/bedrock_rag/blob/main/DAIL-SQL.md) for a more detailed overview. This is surprisingly simple and effective and offers some useful pointers on achieving decent results.

While I did not need the flexibility of the cross\-domain features of the above process, it did provide some hints on the need to achieve good results. Providing SQL examples for similar questions seemed essential to good performance \- especially in our domain where concepts such as “returning users” cannot easily be deduced from the schema. However, the masking of questions and comparison of SQL queries seemed unnecessary, given the domain\-specific nature of my problem.

Most importantly, it's clear the problem should be decomposed into multiple steps.

## UDF’s to generate embeddings [\#](/blog/retrieval-augmented-generation-rag-with-clickhouse-bedrock#udfs-to-generate-embeddings)
