---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/enhancing-google-analytics-data-with-clickhouse
topic: building-a-rag-pipeline-for-google-analytics-with-clickhouse-and-amazon-bedrock
ch_version_introduced: '0.5078125'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

toDate(event_timestamp) AS event_date, count(*) AS blog_posts_published FROM ga_daily WHERE page_location LIKE '%/blog/%' GROUP BY event_date HAVING event_date >= '2003-09-01' AND event_date <= '2003-09-30'` | No. No concept of publishing. | A few observations from this sample of results:

- When the question can be addressed by a GROUP BY, and it targets a single Google Analytics metric, the provided context seems to work well.
- Filtering by concepts, based on defining a concept as a set of words, seems to work well with it being realized as a sub\-query. Any interface would like to ask a user to refine these words since they estimate a concept at best.
- ClickHouse documentation clearly was part of the LLM model training, since functions like [`toStartOfMonth`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions#tostartofmonth) are used despite not occurring in the prompt. However, additional docs\-based context would likely be useful.
- The model provides a decent effort when the time period is vague e.g. “What is the source of traffic over time?” an interval is used. This could likely be addressed with a prompt modification.
- Even when no example questions are provided, the correct answer is delivered e.g., for identifying the source of traffic. In this case, the appropriate column is deduced from the schema and additional context.
- The model struggles with the latter two queries. “What is the average number of views for doc pages for each returning user per day?” combines two GA metrics and requires a sub\-query to identify the returning users, with average views per user filtered by this set. However, the query is generated to compute (with an incorrect query) the average number of views for users per day. This query is conceptually challenging and may benefit from fine tuning.
- Our latter question fails from insufficient context. We have no sample questions showing how to compute the publish date of a blog.

## Learnings, challenges \& next steps [\#](/blog/retrieval-augmented-generation-rag-with-clickhouse-bedrock#learnings-challenges--next-steps)

The biggest learning from this implementation was to decompose the RAG flow into multiple steps. In our above flow, we have separate uses of a foundational model to identify concepts and metrics to ensure the appropriate context is provided in the prompt.
