---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/enhancing-google-analytics-data-with-clickhouse
topic: building-a-rag-pipeline-for-google-analytics-with-clickhouse-and-amazon-bedrock
ch_version_introduced: '0.5078125'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

this implementation was to decompose the RAG flow into multiple steps. In our above flow, we have separate uses of a foundational model to identify concepts and metrics to ensure the appropriate context is provided in the prompt.

The above prompt also took some iterations to ensure it was correct. Prompt structure and adherence to the guidelines of the Anthropic documentation proved essential \- especially the prompt ordering and use of XML tags. Without adhering to these standards, we found that information would be ignored \- specifically examples. The process of prompt engineering and refinement is highly iterative and, in reality, needs a test harness with a diverse set of example test problems. Without this, the process can prove extremely frustrating.

In general, the above performance is promising, but it is clear that the approach struggles when example queries cannot be provided for a specific issue. Specifically, we lack example questions that assist with structuring more complex join queries or sub\-filtering. These are more challenging to generically capture as questions, with the majority of our examples simply showing how to compute a metric. The next steps may be to capture a diverse range of example problems. The closest conceptual match of these may then be included as an example in addition to the existing ones, which are based on explicit metrics.

It is clearly important for questions to be precise and guidelines to be provided to users on how to construct questions. Our RAG pipeline is currently quite slow, with multiple steps that could possibly use lighter\-weight models and/or few tokens. Refinement of models may also benefit accuracy in a number of steps. Model refinement may also be worth exploring in each step to improve performance and accuracy.

The current accuracy is not sufficient for an application to automatically render a chart. We have therefore decided to explore an approach where the generated SQL is shown to the user in addition to a chart along with the context that was added to the prompt. This would align with our likely need for users to refine the words used to represent a concept. While this may not solve our initial problem, we suspect users new to the dataset might still find value in this approach.
