---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-cloud-generally-available
topic: building-clickhouse-cloud-on-microsoft-azure
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 12
---

ensure correct authorization. Each ClickHouse Cloud cluster has its own identity and only this identity can access the data. For identity and access management, we leverage CSP offerings such as [AWS IAM](https://aws.amazon.com/iam/)/[GCP IAM](https://cloud.google.com/security/products/iam)/[Microsoft Entra](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/) (previously Azure Active Directory).

Although each CSP has its own specific solution, ideally, we should be able to design common interfaces and abstract out most of the complexity. However, in reality, while some components such as compute (Kubernetes) were seamless across CSPs, not all components were so easy.

Object storage is one example. Azure blob storage is fairly different from AWS S3 in terms of both its API and implementation. Blob storage also has different permission\-based access on buckets. This results in differences in the way we organize storage for each cluster. This was one of the easier differences to work around. More complex components like network setup are discussed in detail below.

One problem we didn’t anticipate was the way cloud resources (e.g., VMs, identities, and storage buckets) are organized in Azure. Let’s discuss why that is.

### Cloud resource organization [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-launched-microsoft-launched#cloud-resource-organization)

In AWS, resources are organized under accounts, which serve as the primary container for all resources. At a higher level, AWS Organizations allow you to manage multiple accounts centrally, providing consolidated billing and centralized access control. This creates a two\-level hierarchy: individual accounts and the organization.

Similarly, GCP employs a three\-level hierarchy, starting at the top with Organizations, which contain Projects and, optionally Folders for further organization. Projects are the primary container for resources and represent billing entities, while Folders allow hierarchical grouping of Projects.

Azure, on the other hand, has a more complex resource hierarchy. At the top level are tenants, representing a dedicated Microsoft Entra ID (previously [Azure AD](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/security/business/identity-access/microsoft-entra-id)) instance and providing identity management across multiple subscriptions. Under tenants, Management Groups manage access, policies, and compliance across multiple subscriptions. Subscriptions, containers for billing, and resource management sit under Management Groups. Additionally, resources are organized within each subscription into Resource Groups, which are logical containers for related resources. This results in a four\-level hierarchy: **Tenants**, **Management Groups**, **Subscriptions**, and **Resource Groups**.
