---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/system-tables/dashboards)**
topic: common-issues-you-can-solve-using-advanced-monitoring-dashboards
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

ClickHouse system. Below is a list with descriptions for each chart. They are grouped into three categories to help you navigate them. **ClickHouse specific**: These metrics are tailored to monitor the health and performance of your ClickHouse instance.

- Queries Per Second: Tracks the rate of queries being processed.
- Selected Rows/Sec: Indicates the number of rows being read by queries.
- Inserted Rows/Sec: Measures the data ingestion rate.
- Total MergeTree Parts: Shows the number of active parts in MergeTree tables, helping identify unbatched inserts.
- Max Parts for Partition: Highlights the maximum number of parts in any partition.
- Queries Running: Displays the number of queries currently executing.
- Selected Bytes Per Second: Indicates the volume of data being read by queries.

**System health specific**:

Monitoring the underlying system is just as important as watching ClickHouse itself.

- IO Wait:  Tracks I/O wait times.
- CPU Wait: Measures delays caused by CPU resource contention
- Read From Disk: Tracks the number of bytes read from disks or block devices
- Read From Filesystem: Tracks the number of bytes read from the filesystem, including page cache.
- Memory (tracked, bytes): Shows memory usage for processes tracked by ClickHouse.
- Load Average (15 minutes): Report the current load average 15 from the system
- OS CPU Usage (Userspace): CPU Usage running userspace code
- OS CPU Usage (Kernel): CPU Usage running kernel code

**ClickHouse Cloud specific**:

ClickHouse Cloud stores data using object storage (S3 type). Monitoring this interface can help detect issues.
