---
source: blog
url: https://www.nansen.ai/
topic: unlocking-the-power-of-onchain-analytics-how-nansen-transformed-their-data-infrastructure-with-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

database management systems. They considered several options, including AlloyDB and Apache Druid, but found that while they outperformed BigQuery in some aspects, they often introduced new complexities or failed to deliver the necessary gains in speed and efficiency.

> “We had some basic performance requirements for our queries and had received a lot of feedback that speed was critical for our users,” Anders says. “Internally, we also discussed the trade\-offs between increasing developer complexity and getting the performance we needed. As we looked at different solutions, that balance was hard to find.”

Anders first heard of ClickHouse several years earlier at Schibsted, before the open\-source database became its own independent company. In those early days, Anders says they had a number of good conversations with the ClickHouse team, and he followed their progress as they incorporated in 2021 and released ClickHouse Cloud in 2022\.

When Anders revisited ClickHouse in his new role at Nansen, he saw right away that the columnar database offered exceptional performance. His team conducted rigorous tests, comparing its capabilities against their existing setup and other solutions. The results were impressive: ClickHouse not only outperformed BigQuery in speed and efficiency, but the managed service offered by ClickHouse Cloud on GCP promised reduced complexity and costs.

> “ClickHouse was the winner by a considerable margin,” Anders says. “Compared to other solutions, it offered the best balance of performance improvements without introducing unmanageable complexity.”

## The Benefits of ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/unlocking-the-power-of-onchain-analytics-how-nansen-transformed-their-data-infrastructure-with-clickhouse-cloud#the-benefits-of-clickhouse-cloud)

After a successful proof of concept in which Anders and the team managed ClickHouse internally, they decided to transition Nansen’s data infrastructure to ClickHouse Cloud fully. Anders says their long\-term vision had always been finding a cloud service to simplify their data operations.

> “We know the pains of managing your own infrastructure, especially when it comes to storage,” Anders says. “We wanted a fully managed service like ClickHouse Cloud to help us avoid that.”
> Today, ClickHouse is in the center of Nansen’s data operations. As Anders explains, the move to ClickHouse Cloud on GCP has provided a range of benefits to Nansen’s team, customers, and the business at large.

### Improved Performance [\#](/blog/unlocking-the-power-of-onchain-analytics-how-nansen-transformed-their-data-infrastructure-with-clickhouse-cloud#improved-performance)
