---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/dictionary/lifetime.md)#
topic: refreshing-dictionary-data-using-lifetime-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

# Refreshing dictionary data using LIFETIME \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Statements](/docs/sql-reference/statements)- [CREATE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create)- DICTIONARY- LIFETIME
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/dictionary/lifetime.md)# Refreshing dictionary data using LIFETIME

ClickHouse periodically updates dictionaries based on the `LIFETIME` tag (defined in seconds).
`LIFETIME` is the update interval for fully downloaded dictionaries and the invalidation interval for cached dictionaries.

During updates, the old version of a dictionary can still be queried.
Dictionary updates do not block queries, apart from when they load for first use.
If an error occurs during an update, the error is written to the server log, and queries can continue using the old version of the dictionary.
If a dictionary update is successful, the old version of the dictionary is replaced [atomically](/docs/concepts/glossary#atomicity).

Example of settings:

TipIf you are using a dictionary with ClickHouse Cloud please use the DDL query option to create your dictionaries, and create your dictionary as user `default`.
Also, verify the list of supported dictionary sources in the [Cloud Compatibility guide](/docs/whats-new/cloud-compatibility).

```
<dictionary>
    ...
    <lifetime>300</lifetime>
    ...
</dictionary>

```

or

```
CREATE DICTIONARY (...)
...
LIFETIME(300)
...

```

Setting `<lifetime>0</lifetime>` (`LIFETIME(0)`) prevents dictionaries from updating.

You can set a time interval for updates, and ClickHouse will choose a uniformly random time within this range. This is necessary in order to distribute the load on the dictionary source when updating on a large number of servers.

Example of settings:

```
<dictionary>
    ...
    <lifetime>
        <min>300</min>
        <max>360</max>
    </lifetime>
    ...
</dictionary>

```

or

```
LIFETIME(MIN 300 MAX 360)

```

If `<min>0</min>` and `<max>0</max>`, ClickHouse does not reload the dictionary by timeout.
In this case, ClickHouse can reload the dictionary earlier if the dictionary configuration file was changed or the `SYSTEM RELOAD DICTIONARY` command was executed.

When updating the dictionaries, the ClickHouse server applies different logic depending on the type of [source](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/dictionary/sources):

- For a text file, it checks the time of modification. If the time differs from the previously recorded time, the dictionary is updated.
- Dictionaries from other sources are updated every time by default.

For other sources (ODBC, PostgreSQL, ClickHouse, etc), you can set up a query that will update the dictionaries only if they really changed, rather than each time. To do this, follow these steps:
