---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/dictionary/lifetime.md)#
topic: refreshing-dictionary-data-using-lifetime-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

updated every time by default. For other sources (ODBC, PostgreSQL, ClickHouse, etc), you can set up a query that will update the dictionaries only if they really changed, rather than each time. To do this, follow these steps:

- The dictionary table must have a field that always changes when the source data is updated.
- The settings of the source must specify a query that retrieves the changing field. The ClickHouse server interprets the query result as a row, and if this row has changed relative to its previous state, the dictionary is updated. Specify the query in the `<invalidate_query>` field in the settings for the [source](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/dictionary/sources).

Example of settings:

```
<dictionary>
    ...
    <odbc>
      ...
      <invalidate_query>SELECT update_time FROM dictionary_source where id = 1</invalidate_query>
    </odbc>
    ...
</dictionary>

```

or

```
...
SOURCE(ODBC(... invalidate_query 'SELECT update_time FROM dictionary_source where id = 1'))
...

```

For `Cache`, `ComplexKeyCache`, `SSDCache`, and `SSDComplexKeyCache` dictionaries both synchronous and asynchronous updates are supported.

It is also possible for `Flat`, `Hashed`, `HashedArray`, `ComplexKeyHashed` dictionaries to only request data that was changed after the previous update. If `update_field` is specified as part of the dictionary source configuration, value of the previous update time in seconds will be added to the data request. Depends on source type (Executable, HTTP, MySQL, PostgreSQL, ClickHouse, or ODBC) different logic will be applied to `update_field` before request data from an external source.

- If the source is HTTP then `update_field` will be added as a query parameter with the last update time as the parameter value.
- If the source is Executable then `update_field` will be added as an executable script argument with the last update time as the argument value.
- If the source is ClickHouse, MySQL, PostgreSQL, ODBC there will be an additional part of `WHERE`, where `update_field` is compared as greater or equal with the last update time.
	- Per default, this `WHERE`\-condition is checked at the highest level of the SQL\-Query. Alternatively, the condition can be checked in any other `WHERE`\-clause within the query using the `{condition}`\-keyword. Example:
	

	```
	...
	SOURCE(CLICKHOUSE(...
	    update_field 'added_time'
	    QUERY '
	        SELECT my_arr.1 AS x, my_arr.2 AS y, creation_time
	        FROM (
	            SELECT arrayZip(x_arr, y_arr) AS my_arr, creation_time
	            FROM dictionary_source
	            WHERE {condition}
	        )'
	))
	...
	
	```
