---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/company/events/2023-02-01-clickhouse-workshop
topic: clickhouse-release-23-1
ch_version_introduced: '23.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

sec. Processed 200.26 thousand rows, 276.42 MB (138.60 thousand rows/s., 191.31 MB/s.) [✎](https://sql.clickhouse.com?query_id=5RZTNTHWWQKVMZHBTXSRG2) ``` Ideally, we'd like this view to be more flexible than just searching for ClickHouse posts. Using Parameterized views we can now generalize this view:

```

CREATE VIEW search_stackoverflow AS
SELECT
    Id,
    CreationDate,
    Title,
    LastActivityDate,
    ViewCount,
    AnswerCount,
    Score
FROM stackoverflow
WHERE (PostTypeId = 1) AND multiSearchAny(Body, splitByWhitespace({text:String}))

SELECT *
FROM search_stackoverflow(text = 'ClickHouse MergeTree')
ORDER BY Score DESC
LIMIT 1 FORMAT Vertical

Row 1:
──────
Id:               40592010
CreationDate:     2016-11-14 15:13:55.310000000
Title:            Multiple small inserts in clickhouse
LastActivityDate: 2021-01-06 09:14:48.947000000
ViewCount:        15849
AnswerCount:      5
Score:            15

1 row in set. Elapsed: 0.594 sec. Processed 5.79 million rows, 8.10 GB (9.75 million rows/s., 13.62 GB/s.)
[✎](https://sql.clickhouse.com?query_id=OVVFRFJVZXTWGQDB2CQDU7)

```

Note we also split the query string on whitespace to exploit the `multiSearchAny` function. We also optimize with an Inverted Index. This represents a crude search capability but hopefully gives you an idea of how to combine these features.

## Query Results Cache \- Robert Schutze, Mikhail Stetsyuk [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-01#query-results-cache---robert-schutze-mikhail-stetsyuk)

To achieve maximum performance, analytical databases optimize every step of their internal data storage and processing pipeline. But the best kind of work performed by a database is work that is not done at all! Caching is an especially popular technique for avoiding unnecessary work by storing the results of earlier computation or remote data, which is expensive to access. ClickHouse uses caching extensively, for example, to cache DNS records, local and remote (S3\) data, inferred schemas, compiled queries, and regular expressions. In 23\.1, we introduce a new member to the ClickHouse family of Caches, the Query Result Cache!
