---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/4ce52a78ba3bf032153570eb8a1fed3915023e64
topic: ddlworker-and-ddl-queue-problems-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# DDLWorker and DDL queue problems \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Setup \& maintenance](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/)
2. DDLWorker and DDL queue problems
# DDLWorker and DDL queue problems

Finding and troubleshooting problems in the `distributed_ddl_queue`DDLWorker is a subprocess (thread) of `clickhouse-server` that executes `ON CLUSTER` tasks at the node.

When you execute a DDL query with `ON CLUSTER mycluster` section, the query executor at the current node reads the cluster `mycluster` definition (remote\_servers / system.clusters) and places tasks into Zookeeper znode `task_queue/ddl/...` for members of the cluster `mycluster`.

DDLWorker at all ClickHouse® nodes constantly check this `task_queue` for their tasks, executes them locally, and reports about the results back into `task_queue`.

The common issue is the different hostnames/IPAddresses in the cluster definition and locally.

So if the initiator node puts tasks for a host named Host1\. But the Host1 thinks about own name as localhost or **xdgt634678d** (internal docker hostname) and never sees tasks for the Host1 because is looking tasks for **xdgt634678d.** The same with internal VS external IP addresses.

## DDLWorker thread crashed

That causes ClickHouse to stop executing `ON CLUSTER` tasks.

Check that DDLWorker is alive:

```
ps -eL|grep DDL
18829 18876 ?        00:00:00 DDLWorkerClnr
18829 18879 ?        00:00:00 DDLWorker

ps -ef|grep 18829|grep -v grep
clickho+ 18829 18828  1 Feb09 ?        00:55:00 /usr/bin/clickhouse-server --con...

```
As you can see there are two threads: `DDLWorker` and `DDLWorkerClnr`.

The second thread – `DDLWorkerCleaner` cleans old tasks from `task_queue`. You can configure how many recent tasks to store:

```
config.xml
<yandex>
    <distributed_ddl>
        <path>/clickhouse/task_queue/ddl</path>
        <pool_size>1</pool_size>
        <max_tasks_in_queue>1000</max_tasks_in_queue>
        <task_max_lifetime>604800</task_max_lifetime>
        <cleanup_delay_period>60</cleanup_delay_period>
    </distributed_ddl>
</yandex>

```
Default values:

**cleanup\_delay\_period** \= 60 seconds – Sets how often to start cleanup to remove outdated data.

**task\_max\_lifetime** \= 7 \* 24 \* 60 \* 60 (in seconds \= week) – Delete task if its age is greater than that.

**max\_tasks\_in\_queue** \= 1000 – How many tasks could be in the queue.

**pool\_size** \= 1 \- How many ON CLUSTER queries can be run simultaneously.

## Too intensive stream of ON CLUSTER command

Generally, it’s a bad design, but you can increase pool\_size setting

## Stuck DDL tasks in the distributed\_ddl\_queue
