---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition.md)#
topic: manipulating-partitions-and-parts-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

# Manipulating Partitions and Parts \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Statements](/docs/sql-reference/statements)- [ALTER](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter)- PARTITION
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition.md)# Manipulating Partitions and Parts

The following operations with [partitions](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/custom-partitioning-key) are available:

- [DETACH PARTITION\|PART](#detach-partitionpart) — Moves a partition or part to the `detached` directory and forget it.
- [DROP PARTITION\|PART](#drop-partitionpart) — Deletes a partition or part.
- [DROP DETACHED PARTITION\|PART](#drop-detached-partitionpart) \- Delete a part or all parts of a partition from `detached`.
- [FORGET PARTITION](#forget-partition) — Deletes a partition metadata from zookeeper if it's empty.
- [ATTACH PARTITION\|PART](#attach-partitionpart) — Adds a partition or part from the `detached` directory to the table.
- [ATTACH PARTITION FROM](#attach-partition-from) — Copies the data partition from one table to another and adds.
- [REPLACE PARTITION](#replace-partition) — Copies the data partition from one table to another and replaces.
- [MOVE PARTITION TO TABLE](#move-partition-to-table) — Moves the data partition from one table to another.
- [CLEAR COLUMN IN PARTITION](#clear-column-in-partition) — Resets the value of a specified column in a partition.
- [CLEAR INDEX IN PARTITION](#clear-index-in-partition) — Resets the specified secondary index in a partition.
- [FREEZE PARTITION](#freeze-partition) — Creates a backup of a partition.
- [UNFREEZE PARTITION](#unfreeze-partition) — Removes a backup of a partition.
- [FETCH PARTITION\|PART](#fetch-partitionpart) — Downloads a part or partition from another server.
- [MOVE PARTITION\|PART](#move-partitionpart) — Move partition/data part to another disk or volume.
- [UPDATE IN PARTITION](#update-in-partition) — Update data inside the partition by condition.
- [DELETE IN PARTITION](#delete-in-partition) — Delete data inside the partition by condition.
- [REWRITE PARTS](#rewrite-parts) — Rewrite parts in the table (or specific partition) completely.

## DETACH PARTITION\|PART[​](#detach-partitionpart "Direct link to DETACH PARTITION|PART")



```
ALTER TABLE table_name [ON CLUSTER cluster] DETACH PARTITION|PART partition_expr

```

Moves all data for the specified partition to the `detached` directory. The server forgets about the detached data partition as if it does not exist. The server will not know about this data until you make the [ATTACH](#attach-partitionpart) query.

Example:

```
ALTER TABLE mt DETACH PARTITION '2020-11-21';
ALTER TABLE mt DETACH PART 'all_2_2_0';

```

Read about setting the partition expression in a section [How to set the partition expression](#how-to-set-partition-expression).

After the query is executed, you can do whatever you want with the data in the `detached` directory — delete it from the file system, or just leave it.
