---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition.md)#
topic: manipulating-partitions-and-parts-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

data to the table from the `detached` directory. It is possible to add data for an entire partition or for a separate part. Examples: ``` ALTER TABLE visits ATTACH PARTITION 201901; ALTER TABLE visits ATTACH PART 201901_2_2_0; ```

Read more about setting the partition expression in a section [How to set the partition expression](#how-to-set-partition-expression).

This query is replicated. The replica\-initiator checks whether there is data in the `detached` directory.
If data exists, the query checks its integrity. If everything is correct, the query adds the data to the table.

If the non\-initiator replica, receiving the attach command, finds the part with the correct checksums in its own `detached` folder, it attaches the data without fetching it from other replicas.
If there is no part with the correct checksums, the data is downloaded from any replica having the part.

You can put data to the `detached` directory on one replica and use the `ALTER ... ATTACH` query to add it to the table on all replicas.

## ATTACH PARTITION FROM[​](#attach-partition-from "Direct link to ATTACH PARTITION FROM")

```
ALTER TABLE table2 [ON CLUSTER cluster] ATTACH PARTITION partition_expr FROM table1

```

This query copies the data partition from `table1` to `table2`.

Note that:

- Data will be deleted neither from `table1` nor from `table2`.
- `table1` may be a temporary table.

For the query to run successfully, the following conditions must be met:

- Both tables must have the same structure.
- Both tables must have the same partition key, the same order by key and the same primary key.
- Both tables must have the same storage policy.
- The destination table must include all indices and projections from the source table. If the `enforce_index_structure_match_on_partition_manipulation` setting is enabled in destination table, the indices and projections must be identical. Otherwise, the destination table can have a superset of the source table's indices and projections.

## REPLACE PARTITION[​](#replace-partition "Direct link to REPLACE PARTITION")

```
ALTER TABLE table2 [ON CLUSTER cluster] REPLACE PARTITION partition_expr FROM table1

```

This query copies the data partition from `table1` to `table2` and replaces the existing partition in `table2`. The operation is atomic.

Note that:

- Data won't be deleted from `table1`.
- `table1` may be a temporary table.

For the query to run successfully, the following conditions must be met:
