---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition.md)#
topic: manipulating-partitions-and-parts-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

TABLE table_name [ON CLUSTER cluster] FREEZE [PARTITION partition_expr] [WITH NAME 'backup_name'] ``` This query creates a local backup of a specified partition. If the `PARTITION` clause is omitted, the query creates the backup of all partitions at once.

NoteThe entire backup process is performed without stopping the server.

Note that for old\-styled tables you can specify the prefix of the partition name (for example, `2019`) \- then the query creates the backup for all the corresponding partitions. Read about setting the partition expression in a section [How to set the partition expression](#how-to-set-partition-expression).

At the time of execution, for a data snapshot, the query creates hardlinks to a table data. Hardlinks are placed in the directory `/var/lib/clickhouse/shadow/N/...`, where:

- `/var/lib/clickhouse/` is the working ClickHouse directory specified in the config.
- `N` is the incremental number of the backup.
- if the `WITH NAME` parameter is specified, then the value of the `'backup_name'` parameter is used instead of the incremental number.

NoteIf you use [a set of disks for data storage in a table](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#table_engine-mergetree-multiple-volumes), the `shadow/N` directory appears on every disk, storing data parts that matched by the `PARTITION` expression.

The same structure of directories is created inside the backup as inside `/var/lib/clickhouse/`. The query performs `chmod` for all files, forbidding writing into them.

After creating the backup, you can copy the data from `/var/lib/clickhouse/shadow/` to the remote server and then delete it from the local server. Note that the `ALTER t FREEZE PARTITION` query is not replicated. It creates a local backup only on the local server.

The query creates backup almost instantly (but first it waits for the current queries to the corresponding table to finish running).

`ALTER TABLE t FREEZE PARTITION` copies only the data, not table metadata. To make a backup of table metadata, copy the file `/var/lib/clickhouse/metadata/database/table.sql`

To restore data from a backup, do the following:

1. Create the table if it does not exist. To view the query, use the .sql file (replace `ATTACH` in it with `CREATE`).
2. Copy the data from the `data/database/table/` directory inside the backup to the `/var/lib/clickhouse/data/database/table/detached/` directory.
3. Run `ALTER TABLE t ATTACH PARTITION` queries to add the data to a table.

Restoring from a backup does not require stopping the server.
