---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition.md)#
topic: manipulating-partitions-and-parts-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

the data from the `data/database/table/` directory inside the backup to the `/var/lib/clickhouse/data/database/table/detached/` directory. 3. Run `ALTER TABLE t ATTACH PARTITION` queries to add the data to a table. Restoring from a backup does not require stopping the server.

The query processes parts in parallel, the number of threads is regulated by the `max_threads` setting.

For more information about backups and restoring data, see section ["Backup and Restore in ClickHouse"](/docs/operations/backup/overview) section.

## UNFREEZE PARTITION[​](#unfreeze-partition "Direct link to UNFREEZE PARTITION")

```
ALTER TABLE table_name [ON CLUSTER cluster] UNFREEZE [PARTITION 'part_expr'] WITH NAME 'backup_name'

```

Removes `frozen` partitions with the specified name from the disk. If the `PARTITION` clause is omitted, the query removes the backup of all partitions at once.

## CLEAR INDEX IN PARTITION[​](#clear-index-in-partition "Direct link to CLEAR INDEX IN PARTITION")

```
ALTER TABLE table_name [ON CLUSTER cluster] CLEAR INDEX index_name IN PARTITION partition_expr

```

The query works similar to `CLEAR COLUMN`, but it resets an index instead of a column data.

## FETCH PARTITION\|PART[​](#fetch-partitionpart "Direct link to FETCH PARTITION|PART")



```
ALTER TABLE table_name [ON CLUSTER cluster] FETCH PARTITION|PART partition_expr FROM 'path-in-zookeeper'

```

Downloads a partition from another server. This query only works for the replicated tables.

The query does the following:

1. Downloads the partition\|part from the specified shard. In 'path\-in\-zookeeper' you must specify a path to the shard in ZooKeeper.
2. Then the query puts the downloaded data to the `detached` directory of the `table_name` table. Use the [ATTACH PARTITION\|PART](#attach-partitionpart) query to add the data to the table.

For example:

1. FETCH PARTITION

```
ALTER TABLE users FETCH PARTITION 201902 FROM '/clickhouse/tables/01-01/visits';
ALTER TABLE users ATTACH PARTITION 201902;

```

2. FETCH PART

```
ALTER TABLE users FETCH PART 201901_2_2_0 FROM '/clickhouse/tables/01-01/visits';
ALTER TABLE users ATTACH PART 201901_2_2_0;

```

Note that:

- The `ALTER ... FETCH PARTITION|PART` query isn't replicated. It places the part or partition to the `detached` directory only on the local server.
- The `ALTER TABLE ... ATTACH` query is replicated. It adds the data to all replicas. The data is added to one of the replicas from the `detached` directory, and to the others \- from neighboring replicas.

Before downloading, the system checks if the partition exists and the table structure matches. The most appropriate replica is selected automatically from the healthy replicas.
