---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition.md)#
topic: manipulating-partitions-and-parts-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

IN PARTITION") Deletes data in the specifies partition matching the specified filtering expression. Implemented as a [mutation](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter#mutations). Syntax: ``` ALTER TABLE [db.]table [ON CLUSTER cluster] DELETE [IN PARTITION partition_expr] WHERE filter_expr ``` ### Example[​](#example-1 "Direct link to Example")

```
-- using partition name
ALTER TABLE mt DELETE IN PARTITION 2 WHERE p = 2;

-- using partition id
ALTER TABLE mt DELETE IN PARTITION ID '2' WHERE p = 2;

```

## REWRITE PARTS[​](#rewrite-parts "Direct link to REWRITE PARTS")

This will rewrite the parts from scratch, using all new settings. This makes sense because table\-level settings like `use_const_adaptive_granularity` are applied only for newly written parts by default.

### Example[​](#example-rewrite-parts "Direct link to Example")

```
ALTER TABLE mt REWRITE PARTS;
ALTER TABLE mt REWRITE PARTS IN PARTITION 2;

```

### See Also[​](#see-also-1 "Direct link to See Also")

- [DELETE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/delete)

## How to Set Partition Expression[​](#how-to-set-partition-expression "Direct link to How to Set Partition Expression")

You can specify the partition expression in `ALTER ... PARTITION` queries in different ways:

- As a value from the `partition` column of the `system.parts` table. For example, `ALTER TABLE visits DETACH PARTITION 201901`.
- Using the keyword `ALL`. It can be used only with DROP/DETACH/ATTACH/ATTACH FROM. For example, `ALTER TABLE visits ATTACH PARTITION ALL`.
- As a tuple of expressions or constants that matches (in types) the table partitioning keys tuple. In the case of a single element partitioning key, the expression should be wrapped in the `tuple (...)` function. For example, `ALTER TABLE visits DETACH PARTITION tuple(toYYYYMM(toDate('2019-01-25')))`.
- Using the partition ID. Partition ID is a string identifier of the partition (human\-readable, if possible) that is used as the names of partitions in the file system and in ZooKeeper. The partition ID must be specified in the `PARTITION ID` clause, in a single quotes. For example, `ALTER TABLE visits DETACH PARTITION ID '201901'`.
- In the [ALTER ATTACH PART](#attach-partitionpart) and [DROP DETACHED PART](#drop-detached-partitionpart) query, to specify the name of a part, use string literal with a value from the `name` column of the [system.detached\_parts](/docs/operations/system-tables/detached_parts) table. For example, `ALTER TABLE visits ATTACH PART '201901_1_1_0'`.
