---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-dictionaries/altinity-kb-sparse_hashed-vs-hashed/
topic: dimension-table-design-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

to 256\. More RAM will be used for PK, but it’s a reasonable price for reading less data from the disk and making report queries faster, and that amount can be lowered by lightweight PK design (see below).

The `EmbeddedRocksDB` engine could be used as an alternative. It performs much better than ReplacingMergeTree for highly mutated data, as it is tuned by design for random point queries and high\-frequency updates. However, EmbeddedRocksDB does not support Replication, so INSERTing data to such tables should be done over a Distributed table with `internal_replication` set to false, which is vulnerable to different desync problems. Some “sync” procedures should be designed, developed, and applied after serious data ingesting incidents (like ETL crashes).

When the Dimension table is built on several incoming event streams, `AggregatingMergeTree` is preferable to `ReplacingMergeTree`, as it allows putting data from different event streams without external ETL processes:

```
CREATE TABLE table_C (
    id      UInt64,
    colA    SimpleAggregatingFunction(any,Nullable(UInt32)),
    colB    SimpleAggregatingFunction(max, String)
) ENGINE = AggregatingMergeTree()
PARTITION BY intDiv(id, 0x800000000000000) /* 32 bucket*/
ORDER BY id;

CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW mv_A TO table_C AS SELECT id,colA FROM Kafka_A;
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW mv_B TO table_C AS SELECT id,colB FROM Kafka_B;

```
EmbeddedRocksDB natively supports UPDATEs without any complications with AggregatingFunctions.

For dimensions where some “start date” column is used in filtering, the [Range\_Hashed](https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-dictionaries/altinity-kb-range_hashed-example-open-intervals/)
dictionary layout can be used if it is acceptable for RAM usage. For MergeTree variants, ASOF JOIN in queries is needed. Such types of dimensions are the first candidates for placement into RAM.

EmbeddedRocksDB is not suitable here.

### Primary Key

To increase query performance, I recommend using a single UInt64 (not String) column for PK, where the upper 32 bits are reserved for tenant\_id (shop\_id) and the lower 32 bits for actual object\_id (like customer\_id, product\_id, etc.)

That benefits both EmbeddedRocksDB Engine (it can have only one Primary Key column) and ReplacingMergeTree, as FINAL processing will work much faster with a light ORDER BY column of a single UInt64 value.

### Direct Dictionary and UDFs

To make the SQL code of report queries more readable and manageable, I recommend always using Dictionaries to access dimensions. A `direct dictionary layout` should be used for disk\-stored dimensions (EmbeddedRocksDB or \*MergeTree).
