---
source: blog
url: https://www.databricks.com/company/newsroom/press-releases/databricks-agrees-acquire-tabular-company-founded-original-creators
topic: climbing-the-iceberg-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.001'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

a Java Kernel and a Rust Kernel. For ClickHouse, we’re integrating the Rust Kernel to accelerate future Delta Lake development. Once the Kernel supports writing to Delta tables, ClickHouse will be able to offer write support as well.

In addition to this, we can build on our work with Iceberg to enhance Delta support. As a result, many of the Iceberg features will soon be available for Delta as well. Similar to the Iceberg catalog, we aim to support the Delta catalog (primarily Unity). By leveraging our initial Iceberg catalog implementation, extending support to Delta should be relatively straightforward.

## Roadmap for lakehouses in 2025 [\#](/blog/climbing-the-iceberg-with-clickhouse#roadmap-for-lakehouses-in-2025)

Every year, we publish a [new roadmap for the ClickHouse core](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/74046) database, and 2025 is no exception. While many features are planned, in summary, our focus falls into three key areas:

**1\. Enhancing the user experience for ad\-hoc and frequent queries on data lakes/lakehouses**

- Expanding catalog integrations for Iceberg and Delta
- Full support for Iceberg and Delta\-specific features, including complex data types such as the variant type
- Introducing a metadata caching layer for improved query performance
- Enhancing our Parquet reader for better efficiency

This work is essential for enabling users to easily discover their data within their data lake and make it readily accessible and queryable in ClickHouse. In addition to all the above mentioned features, some work is also planned around improving the distributed query execution when reading the Parquet format. Currently the unit of task distribution is done at the file level. With file sizes often varying, this leads to suboptimal distribution of work. We thus intend to make the unit of distribution more granular by exploiting properties of the Parquet format.

**2\. Improving ClickHouse’s capabilities for working with data lakes/lakehouses**

- Enabling write support for Iceberg and Delta
- Compactions and liquid clustering
- Introducing external materialized views for better query efficiency

Currently, ClickHouse cannot be used as a writer for Iceberg, which presents some limitations. ClickHouse is widely used for data preprocessing, particularly through its extensive support for materialized views. With write support, we will be able to leverage our experience with the MergeTree table engine to implement efficient compaction for Iceberg and Delta tables.
