---
source: blog
url: https://electrum.id
topic: how-electrum-is-driving-indonesia-s-net-zero-carbon-future-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

with its drivers collectively traveling over 220,000 kilometers per day. "Imagine the carbon offset and sustainability impact of moving from an ICE motorcycle to an electric motorcycle," Andi says. "That's the impact we're trying to offer to Indonesians."

But this rapid expansion has triggered a tidal wave of data demands. The IoT data stream alone is immense, with each battery continuously transmitting key metrics like voltage, current, temperature, state of charge, and health status. GPS location data and vehicle telemetry add another layer of real\-time information to be processed.

On top of that, transactional data from customer top\-ups, battery swaps, and fleet management operations introduces even more complexity, with thousands of transactions occurring daily across Electrum's growing network of stations and vehicles.

"These two data sets are crucial to supporting our business," Andi says. "We needed a platform that could monitor ongoing activities, support analytics, and generate actionable insights."

## Priorities for a new database [\#](/blog/electrum-driving-net-zero-carbon-future-with-clickhouse#priorities-for-a-new-database)

Electrum's search for a new database focused on three main priorities: flexibility, efficiency, and scalability. Flexibility would let business users query raw and aggregated data independently, without help from engineers. This self\-service approach was key to responding quickly to challenges, like investigating swap station performance or analyzing driver behavior.

Efficiency was just as important. With millions of records generated daily, the database needed to handle high volumes of data while minimizing its use of resources. As a startup, Electrum couldn't afford to over\-provision or let infrastructure costs spiral out of control.

Finally, scalability was non\-negotiable. With plans to expand its fleet and add thousands of new bikes and swap stations, Electrum needed a solution that could grow alongside its business. Whether it was doubling CPU capacity or moving to a multi\-server setup, the database had to keep pace with Electrum's rapid expansion.

## ClickHouse: The perfect choice [\#](/blog/electrum-driving-net-zero-carbon-future-with-clickhouse#clickhouse-the-perfect-choice)

After considering a range of options, including row\-based databases like Postgres and MySQL, ClickHouse emerged as the clear winner. Its [columnar storage format](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/faq/general/columnar-database) allows for lightning\-fast queries, processing only the relevant data rather than scanning entire rows. This is especially valuable for Electrum's IoT datasets, where engineers need to quickly analyze performance metrics and spot trends.
