---
source: blog
url: https://docs.fiveonefour.com/moose/getting-started/from-clickhouse
topic: does-olap-need-an-orm
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 12
---

to amplify these ORM weaknesses. OLAP queries tend to be more complex and harder to optimize than simple CRUD operations. And analytical databases often provide specialized functionality—window functions, incremental aggregations, table engines, etc—that existing OLTP ORMs don’t expose.

But what if we could bring some of the benefits of ORMs to the world of OLAP? Or maybe to start: why don’t we just use the ORMs we already have for our new analytical needs?

## **OLTP ORMs Probably Shouldn’t Extend to OLAP** [\#](/blog/moosestack-does-olap-need-an-orm#oltp-orms-probably-shouldnt-extend-to-olap)

At first glance, extending an existing OLTP ORM seems like the most efficient path. They already have the core building blocks: schema APIs, query builders, migration tooling, and established communities. However, we’ve tried this approach (foreshadowing!) and found it ill\-advised. The foundational assumptions of an OLTP database are divergent from those of OLAP databases in ways that can create significant confusion and anti\-patterns for ORM users.

OLTP schema modeling APIs are built around the assumptions of row‑oriented, write‑time enforcement. OLAP databases like ClickHouse are column‑oriented, append‑only, and rely on background processing for deduplication. Those differences leak into the meaning of the ORM’s core modeling concepts.

If you take an ORM like Drizzle—built for OLTP—and just point it at an OLAP database like ClickHouse, you can create a false sense of sameness. The APIs might look the same, but the defaults, guarantees, and even the meaning of the same method names change drastically.

Let’s take two examples to illustrate the point: `nullable()` and `unique()`.

### Example \#1: Nullability is Inverted [\#](/blog/moosestack-does-olap-need-an-orm#example-1-nullability-is-inverted)

In OLTP, you assume by default that a column can accept a null value. To overwrite this constraint, you can add a modifier to the column to say that a value for a column is **required:**

```
import { integer, pgTable } from "drizzle-orm/pg-core";

const table = pgTable('table', {
  integer: integer('integer').notNull(), // in OLTP, you override nullable assumption
});

```

In contrast, because OLAP stores data as columns rather than rows, it is expensive to have NULL values in a column. As a result, the default behavior in OLAP tables is that all columns are required. To overwrite this, [you mark a column as `NULLABLE`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/data-types/nullable).

```
CREATE TABLE t_null(
x Int8, 
y Nullable(Int8) -- in OLAP, you override required assumption
) ENGINE TinyLog 

```
