---
source: blog
url: https://docs.fiveonefour.com/moose/getting-started/from-clickhouse
topic: does-olap-need-an-orm
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 12
---

tags tell Moose how to map it in ClickHouse. This lets you leverage the same type definition across your Kafka topics *and* your ClickHouse tables, preventing schema drift when data flows from your streams to your OLAP tables.

This capability also leverages the [Typia](https://typia.io/) (TS) and [Pydantic](https://docs.pydantic.dev/latest/) (Python) schema validation libraries. This means, not only do you get custom types passed to your ClickHouse schema, but you also get type constraints that can power runtime data validation in [Moose APIs](https://docs.fiveonefour.com/moose/apis) on data ingestion or retrieval.

### Embracing ORM\-like Typing in SQL for Complex Queries [\#](/blog/moosestack-does-olap-need-an-orm#embracing-orm-like-typing-in-sql-for-complex-queries)

If you’ve got your OLAP schemas as objects in your application code, the logical next step is building queries that utilize these objects for type safety, auto\-complete, etc.

Traditional ORMs provide high‑level “relational APIs” (`User.findMany()`) to abstract away SQL. That’s great for simple row‑oriented reads and writes, but it leaks for analytics operations. OLAP queries rarely operate on individual rows; they aggregate millions of rows and apply sophisticated functions. Generic CRUD helpers can’t express “approximate top‑k per user within the last hour” or “ANOVA across multiple groups.”

Instead, Moose OLAP borrows from the “[if you know SQL, you know Drizzle](https://orm.drizzle.team/docs/data-querying)” philosophy. Currently, you write your database queries as a tagged `sql` template literal. By using the `sql` template, you can interpolate your table and column names from the objects you’ve modeled in your code, so you get better type safety compared to regular raw SQL strings in your code, while preserving the full expressiveness of the underlying SQL.

```
sql`SELECT 
${events.columns.user_id}, 
approxTopK(5, ${events.columns.event_name} 
FROM ${events} 
GROUP BY ${events.columns.user_id}`

```

ClickHouse’s SQL dialect has a lot of functions and nuances. When you’re new to the engine, this can be overwhelming. Autocomplete \+ type\-checked identifiers help avoid silly mistakes as you write your queries.

This is the current state. But we’re considering going further with query\-builder type functionality. Drizzle’s chained query builder API stays very close to SQL, and will still flag syntax errors in your IDE if you group by a column you didn’t select. Adopting a similar approach with Moose OLAP could look something like this:

```
db.select({
  user_id: events.user_id,
  top_events: approxTopK(5, events.event_name)
})
.from(events)
.groupBy(events.user_id);

```
