---
source: blog
url: https://docs.fiveonefour.com/moose/getting-started/from-clickhouse
topic: does-olap-need-an-orm
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 12
---

that: 1. Maintains the code as the source of truth by default 2. Offers robust migration support and automation 3. Expects and gracefully handles cases where the code and the database diverge #### Migration Planning in MooseStack [\#](/blog/moosestack-does-olap-need-an-orm#migration-planning-in-moosestack)

We’ve seen above how you can define OLAP tables as code with Moose OLAP. In your [Moose local dev](https://docs.fiveonefour.com/moose/getting-started/local-dev) environment (`moose dev`)—where you can iterate safely—schema changes are hot\-reloaded into your local ClickHouse. For example, if you have table named `events` defined in your code, and you add a new `status` field to the schema:

```
interface EventSchema {
	id: Key<string>
	number: number & ClickHouseInt<"int64">
	status: string   // <--- new field
}

const events = new OlapTable<EventSchema>("events")

```

The second you save your changes, you’ll see the infrastructure updates logged to your terminal.

```
$ moose dev

⠋ Processing Infrastructure changes from file watcher
     ~  Table: events
          Column changes:
               + status: String

```

But what about going to production, where you want a migration path that inspires trust and confidence? [Moose Migrate](https://docs.fiveonefour.com/moose/migrate#how-it-works) generates the actual SQL that will be applied to your database during deployment to execute the migration. You can review this migration plan showing all the proposed changes implied by your code, before going to production. This planning capability can be integrated into your local development flow, your CI/CD automation, and your PR review process. So when you’re ready to deploy changes to production, you can be confident in what exactly you’re deploying.

#### Expecting and Handling Schema Drift [\#](/blog/moosestack-does-olap-need-an-orm#expecting-and-handling-schema-drift)

Most ORMs and their related migration tools generate migration plans by diff’ing code↔code (ie. comparing the new models vs. the last migration snapshot). This is usually reliable in the OLTP world, where the database shouldn’t change out of band, and code snapshots should reflect current reality.

But in OLAP, where unexpected schema changes are the expectation, static, code\-first migrations that presume authority can generate the wrong SQL. This is exacerbated by the fact that, as OLAP databases lack transactions, a failed migration can be more challenging to rollback than in OLTP.
