---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://altinity.com/blog/clickhouse-replacingmergetree-explained-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly
topic: replacingmergetree-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.008'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

# ReplacingMergeTree \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

This is the multi\-page printable view of this section.
[Click here to print](#).

[Return to the regular view of this page](/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/replacingmergetree/).

# ReplacingMergeTree

ReplacingMergeTree- 1: [ReplacingMergeTree does not collapse duplicates](#pg-1b0b1062d846cf47875d5cb6db6349be)

[ReplacingMergeTree](https://altinity.com/blog/clickhouse-replacingmergetree-explained-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly)
is a powerful ClickHouse® MergeTree engine. It is one of the techniques that can be used to guarantee unicity or exactly once delivery in ClickHouse.

## General Operations

### Engine Parameters

```
Engine = ReplacingMergeTree([version_column],[is_deleted_column])
ORDER BY <list_of_columns>

```
- **ORDER BY** – The ORDER BY defines the columns that need to be unique at merge time. Since merge time can not be decided most of the time, the FINAL keyword is required to remove duplicates.
- **version\_column** – An monotonically increasing number, which can be based on a timestamp. Used for make sure sure updates are executed in a right order.
- **is\_deleted\_column** (23\.2\+ see <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/41005>
) – the column used to delete rows.

### DML operations

- CREATE – `INSERT INTO t values(..)`
- READ – `SELECT FROM t final`
- UPDATE – `INSERT INTO t(..., _version) values (...)`, insert with incremented version
- DELETE – `INSERT INTO t(..., _version, is_deleted) values(..., 1)`

### FINAL

ClickHouse does not guarantee that merge will fire and replace rows using ReplacingMergeTree logic. `FINAL` keyword should be used in order to apply merge in a query time. It works reasonably fast when PK filter is used, but maybe slow for `SELECT *` type of queries:

See these links for reference:

- [FINAL clause speed](../../../altinity-kb-queries-and-syntax/altinity-kb-final-clause-speed/)
- [Handling Real\-Time Updates in ClickHouse](https://altinity.com/blog/2020/4/14/handling-real-time-updates-in-clickhouse)

Since 23\.2, profile level `final=1` can force final automatically, see <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/40945>

ClickHouse merge parts only in scope of single partition, so if two rows with the same replacing key would land in different partitions, they would **never** be merged in single row. FINAL keyword works in other way, it merge all rows across all partitions. But that behavior can be changed via`do_not_merge_across_partitions_select_final` setting.
