---
source: blog
url: https://www.epilot.cloud/en
topic: epilot-s-journey-from-redshift-and-influxdb-to-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

previous projects and recognized its potential to meet their needs. ClickHouse Cloud on AWS was particularly appealing due to epilot’s preference for a serverless infrastructure aligning with their existing tech stack. The switch to ClickHouse offered several advantages:

1. **Performance and Scalability**: ClickHouse’s ability to handle large volumes of data with low latency was a game\-changer. It allowed epilot to provide real\-time analytics and insights, essential for their clients in the energy sector who need up\-to\-date information to make informed decisions.
2. **Cost Efficiency**: Compared to other solutions like Redshift and Rockset, ClickHouse offered a more cost\-effective option. This was particularly important for epilot, which aimed to balance performance needs with budget considerations.
3. **Flexibility and Integration**: ClickHouse’s support for complex queries and integration capabilities with BI tools enabled epilot to create a more unified data environment. This integration was crucial for generating dashboards and reports that could be easily accessed and used by various teams within the company.

## Implementation and Impact [\#](/blog/epilots-journey-from-redshift-and-influxdb-to-clickhouse#implementation-and-impact)

The implementation of ClickHouse at epilot began with a proof of concept, which proved successful, leading to a broader rollout. Initially, the focus was on internal dashboards and metrics, but the use of ClickHouse quickly expanded to other areas, including a data lake feature that allows customers to connect their BI tools and build custom reports.

One of the immediate benefits was the improvement in query performance and the ability to handle real\-time analytics. This improvement was particularly evident in new features like an end\-customer facing portal, which generated substantial data points. With ClickHouse, epilot could manage and analyze these data sets efficiently, enabling better service delivery and customer insights.

Suresh said:

> "With the integration of ClickHouse, our dashboards now provide real\-time metrics instead of relying on cached data and on\-demand updates. Additionally, the data load speed for our data lake offering, used by our customers, has significantly improved, reducing the time to transfer data from ClickHouse to BI tools from over 30 minutes to under 3 minutes."
