---
source: blog
url: https://docs.fiveonefour.com/moose/getting-started/from-clickhouse
topic: build-clickhouse-powered-apis-with-react-and-moosestack
ch_version_introduced: '41.81'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

gives you: running MooseStack as part of your local dev environment. ## Local\-first dev with seeded ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickhouse-powered-apis-in-react-app-moosestack#local-first-dev-with-seeded-clickhouse) Think about how you work on your frontend: you’d never ship a UI change without firing it up locally first.

With the Moose CLI, you get that same feedback loop: your analytics backend runs locally as a first\-class service next to your app, so you can spin it up, seed it with production data, and safely experiment before anything touches staging or prod.

In our example [reference app](https://github.com/514-labs/area-code/tree/main/ufa-lite), this plays out in a monorepo (although the monorepo approach certainly isn’t required):

- `/apps/web` → Vite React frontend web app
- `/services/transactional` → Fastify API server with CRUD endpoints backed by Supabase \+ Drizzle ORM
- `/services/analytical` → MooseStack backend powered by ClickHouse added specifically for analytics

So when developing locally, you just start each piece of the stack side by side:

```

```
cd apps/web && pnpm dev
cd services/transactional && pnpm dev
cd services/analytical && pnpm dev

# or from the root of the monorepo
pnpm dev
```

```

If you’re following along, your local dev stack now looks like:

- **React frontend** → localhost
- **App server** → localhost (with API access to Postgres)
- **MooseStack analytics service** → localhost (with API access to ClickHouse)

### Seeding Your Local ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickhouse-powered-apis-in-react-app-moosestack#seeding-your-local-clickhouse)

When you run `moose dev`, the CLI spins up a local ClickHouse container. By default, your tables are created, but they contain no data. To test queries and APIs, you can seed them with real data from your ClickHouse Cloud cluster that is in\-sync with your Postgres.

```

```
moose seed clickhouse --connection-string $MOOSE_REMOTE_CLICKHOUSE_URL --limit 100000
```

```

This example copies over up to 100,000 rows per table into your local instance. This allows you to develop fully locally, without any calls to remote infrastructure, over a representative sample of data.

## Status check: what we’ve covered so far [\#](/blog/clickhouse-powered-apis-in-react-app-moosestack#status-check-what-weve-covered-so-far)

So far, you’ve accomplished a few very important things:

1. Created a production\-grade ClickHouse service.
2. Solved Postgres\-ClickHouse syncronisation.
3. Brought your schemas into code as TypeScript types and contracts.
4. Brought those schemas to life in a local ClickHouse dev instance, seeded with representative production data.
