---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse\-presentations/blob/master/meetup41/merge\_tree.pdf](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-presentations/blob/master/meetup41/merge_tree.pdf
topic: mergetree-table-engine-family-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '192.168'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 21
total_chunks_in_doc: 32
---

feature less useful. - Mutated data should be localized to the same partition. If the “replacing” row is saved to a partition different from the previous one, the report query will be much slower or produce unexpected results.

```
-- multiple partitions problem
CREATE TABLE RMT
(
    `key` Int64,
    `someCol` String,
    `eventTime` DateTime
)
ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree()
PARTITION BY toYYYYMM(eventTime)
ORDER BY key;

INSERT INTO RMT Values (1, 'first', '2024-04-25T10:16:21');
INSERT INTO RMT Values (1, 'second', '2024-05-02T08:36:59');

with merged as (select * from RMT FINAL)
select * from merged
where eventTime < '2024-05-01'

```
You will get a row with ‘first’, not an empty set, as one might expect with the FINAL processing of a whole table.

### Collapsing

ClickHouse has other table engines, such as CollapsingMergeTree and VersionedCollapsingMergeTree, that can be used even better for UPSERT operation.

Both work by inserting a “rollback row” to compensate for the previous insert. The difference between CollapsingMergeTree and VersionedCollapsingMergeTree is in the algorithm of collapsing. For Cluster configurations, it’s essential to understand which row came first and who should replace whom. That is why using ReplicatedVersionedCollapsingMergeTree is mandatory for Replicated Clusters.

When dealing with such complicated data streams, it needs to be solved 3 tasks simultaneously:

- remove duplicates
- process updates and deletes
- calculate correct aggregates

It’s essential to understand how the collapsing algorithm of VersionedCollapsingMergeTree works. Quote from the [documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#max-insert-threads)
:

> When ClickHouse merges data parts, it deletes each pair of rows that have the same primary key and version and different Sign. The order of rows does not matter.

The version column should increase over time. You may use a natural timestamp for that. Random\-generated IDs are not suitable for the version column.

### Replace data in another partition

Let’s first fix the problem with mutated data in a different partition.
