---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse\-presentations/blob/master/meetup41/merge\_tree.pdf](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-presentations/blob/master/meetup41/merge_tree.pdf
topic: mergetree-table-engine-family-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '192.168'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 29
total_chunks_in_doc: 32
---

Projection'; -- GROUP BY query Projected insert into timeMark select now64(3); select Department, sum(sign), sum(sign*metric1) from Example4 group by Department order by Department settings force_optimize_projection=1 format Null ; select '---',timeSpent(),'GROUP BY Projected'; ``` Results (Mac A2 Pro), milliseconds:

```
---	175	INSERT
---	1613	UPSERT
---	329	FINAL
---	102	GROUP BY
---	10498	OPTIMIZE
---	103	FINAL OPTIMIZED
---	90	GROUP BY OPTIMIZED
---	94	GROUP BY SEMI-OPTIMIZED
---	919	Materialize Projection
---	5	GROUP BY Projected

```
Some thoughts:

- INSERT, UPSERT, and SELECT benefit from switching the Department column to LowCardinality. Fewer reads \- faster queries.
- OPTIMIZE is VERY expensive
- FINAL is quite fast (especially for the OPTIMIZED table). You don’t need to OPTIMIZE the table till the 1 part for partition to remove FINAL from the query. Not having too many parts already gives you a performance boost.
- GROUP BY for that task is still faster
- projections building requires resources. Inserts to the table with Projections will be longer. Tune the insert timeouts.
- Query over projection is very fast (as it should be). However, it’s not always possible to aggregate data in such a simple way.

### DELETEs inaccuracy

The typical CDC event for DWH systems besides INSERT is UPSERT—a new row replaces the old one (with suitable aggregate corrections). But DELETE events are also supported (ones with column sign\=\-1\). The Materialized View described above will correctly process the DELETE event by inserting only 1 row with sign\=\-1 if a row with a particular ID already exists in the table. In such cases, VersionedCollapsingMergeTree will wipe both rows (with sign\=1 \& \-1\) during merge or final operations.

However, it can lead to incorrect duplicate processing in some rare situations. Here is the scenario:

- two events happen in the source database (insert and delete) for the very same ID
- only insert event create a duplicate (delete event does not duplicate)
- all 3 events (delete and two inserts) were processed in separate batches
- ClickHouse executes the merge operation very quickly after the first INSERT and DELETE events are received, effectively removing the row with that ID from the table
- the second (duplicated) insert is saved to the table because we lost the information about the first insertion
