---
source: blog
url: https://discover.clickhouse.com/newsletter.html?utm_medium=email&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_campaign=newsletter
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-july-2023-seeing-clearly
ch_version_introduced: '0.095'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

patterns in the data to improve query performance. This is particularly in cases where a column is known to be monotonically increasing in most cases but is not part of the ordering key. ### Mongo 6\.x Support [\#](/blog/newsletter_2023_july#mongo-6x-support)

[Watch the introduction of this feature!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cuf_hYn7dqU&t=25m00s)

If there is one data store that is almost ubiquitous in modern web application stacks, it's MongoDB. MongoDB is a document\-oriented database designed to store and retrieve JSON\-like data. While ClickHouse has supported MongoDB with a table function for some time, Mongo v5\.1 introduced protocol changes that required this integration to be updated. We are now pleased to announce support for Mongo up to the latest v6\.

### Transform function [\#](/blog/newsletter_2023_july#transform-function)

[Watch the introduction of this feature!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cuf_hYn7dqU&t=06m56s)

A common problem in data processing is the need to map values \- often codes to something meaningful. This task is best performed in SQL using the transform function. This function has been supported in ClickHouse for some time for numbers, dates, and strings. In 23\.6, we have added support to this function for all data types. The transform function can now be used to transform columns to other types.

## Query of the Month \- windowFunnel [\#](/blog/newsletter_2023_july#query-of-the-month---windowfunnel)

Users new to ClickHouse with prior database experience will often be surprised by the number of analytical functions supported beyond standard ANSI SQL. These are specifically targeted at making certain queries simpler to write and faster to execute.

A less well known function designed for a common question asked by many businesses, is the windowFunnel. For this month's “Query of Month” we’ll explore how this function can be used to solve a funnel analysis of user behavior. At the same time we’ll use the opportunity to understand our own contributors a little more.

The windowFunnel function allows the counting of sequences of events in a sliding time window. More specifically, users can specify an expected sequence and the allowed time period in which they can occur. The function will in turn calculate the maximum number of events that occurred for each sub\-sequence in the chain.
