---
source: blog
url: https://discover.clickhouse.com/newsletter.html?utm_medium=email&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_campaign=newsletter
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-july-2023-seeing-clearly
ch_version_introduced: '0.095'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

window. More specifically, users can specify an expected sequence and the allowed time period in which they can occur. The function will in turn calculate the maximum number of events that occurred for each sub\-sequence in the chain.

The name of this function indicates its intended application: funnel analysis. This can be succinctly described as counting several events users perform one after another. By counting how many unique users reach each event in sequence, a conversion rate for each step can be calculated allowing business owners to localize a problem down to a certain stage. This is a common problem in ecommerce, where businesses aim to identify how users “drop off” during the required steps to making a purchase.

While this can be [solved in classic SQL](https://medium.com/cube-dev/sql-queries-for-funnel-analysis-35d5e456371d), this is an example of how ClickHouse functions can dramatically simplify a query.

For example purposes, we’ll use the popular Github Events dataset. This dataset, present in our documentation, captures all events on GitHub from 2011\. This includes events such as user's adding a repository star, creating a fork, issuing a PR and making a comment. This event data naturally lends itself to a funnel analysis. In our case, we were curious to see what percentage of our users on forking the ClickHouse repository raise a PR within 30 days and how this behavior compares to other popular open\-source projects.

For this query our event sequence consists of only two event types: a `ForkEvent` followed by a `PullRequestEvent`. These events need to occur for a specific user, on the ClickHouse repository, within a 30 day period.

In the interests of making our query efficient, we first identify the users who have forked the ClickHouse repository:

```
SELECT DISTINCT actor_login AS logins FROM github_events
WHERE ((repo_name = 'ClickHouse/ClickHouse') OR (repo_name = 'yandex/ClickHouse')) AND (event_type = 'ForkEvent'))

```

The full parameters of windowFunnel function, and the algorithm it uses, can be found in our docs. In summary, we need to specify the permitted time period and the sequence of events:

```
windowFunnel(2592000)(created_at, event_type = 'ForkEvent', event_type = 'PullRequestEvent')

```

Limiting our analysis to those users who have forked the repository, our query:
