---
source: blog
url: https://discover.clickhouse.com/newsletter.html?utm_medium=email&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_campaign=newsletter
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-july-2023-seeing-clearly
ch_version_introduced: '0.095'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

pattern from our users. More importantly, it allowed us to show you a cool ClickHouse function which hopefully will make your queries simpler! ## Interesting Links [\#](/blog/newsletter_2023_july#interesting-links) Some of our favorite reads that you may have missed include:

1. **[Monitorama PDX 2023 \- How to Scale Observability Without Bankrupting the Company \- David Gildeh, Netflix](https://vimeo.com/843994807)** \- From the talk description: “Every company has struggled with controlling their Observability costs as the amount of data that needs to be collected, stored and queried in real time has gone up exponentially! Netflix has had to solve this problem as it rapidly scaled into a web scale company with 100m's of customers around the world.” Keep an eye out for ClickHouse and how it fits into the infrastructure!!
2. **[Working with Time Series Data in ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/working-with-time-series-data-and-functions-ClickHouse?utm_medium=email&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_campaign=202307-newsletter)** \- Many datasets are collected over time to analyze and discover meaningful trends. Each data point usually has a time assigned when we collect logs or business events. This blog post provides tips and tricks for working with time series data based on everyday tasks that we see our users needing to perform. We cover querying and common data type problems, such as handling gauges, and explore how performance can be improved as we scale.
3. **[ClickHouse and PostgreSQL \- a Match Made in Data Heaven](https://clickhouse.com/blog/migrating-data-between-clickhouse-postgres?utm_medium=email&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_campaign=202307-newsletter)** \- PostgreSQL and ClickHouse represent the best of class concerning open\-source databases, each addressing different use cases with their respective strengths and weaknesses. Having recently enabled our PostgreSQL (and MySQL) integrations in ClickHouse Cloud, we thought we’d take the opportunity to remind users of how these powerful integrations can be used with ClickHouse. (part 1 of a series)
4. **[Vector Search with ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p1?utm_medium=email&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_campaign=202307-newsletter)** \- Over the past year, Large Language Models (LLMs) along with products like ChatGPT have captured the world's imagination and have been driving a new wave of functionality built on top of them. The concept of vectors and vector search is core to powering features like recommendations, question answering, image / video search, and much more. In case you missed it, this series covers the basics of Vector Search and ClickHouse implementation all in one convenient series.
5. **[NYC Meetup Report: Vantage's Journey from Redshift and Postgres to ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/nyc-meetup-report-vantages-journey-from-redshift-and-postgres-to-clickhouse?utm_medium=email&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_campaign=202307-newsletter)** \- In case you missed the recording of Vantage’s great talk at our recent NYC meetup, you can read all about it in our meetup report. Vantage shares why they moved from Redshift and Postgres to ClickHouse including their challenges, decision to switch, and the benefits gained.
