---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/collapsingmergetree.md)#
topic: collapsingmergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

the current state. As we need only the last state of user activity, the original "state" row and the "cancel" row that we inserted can be deleted as shown below, collapsing the invalid (old) state of an object:

```
┌──────────────UserID─┬─PageViews─┬─Duration─┬─Sign─┐
│ 4324182021466249494 │         5 │      146 │    1 │ -- old "state" row can be deleted
│ 4324182021466249494 │         5 │      146 │   -1 │ -- "cancel" row can be deleted
│ 4324182021466249494 │         6 │      185 │    1 │ -- new "state" row remains
└─────────────────────┴───────────┴──────────┴──────┘

```

`CollapsingMergeTree` carries out precisely this *collapsing* behavior while merging of the data parts takes place.

NoteThe reason for why two rows are needed for each change
is further discussed in the [Algorithm](#table_engine-collapsingmergetree-collapsing-algorithm) paragraph.

**The peculiarities of such an approach**

1. The program that writes the data should remember the state of an object to be able to cancel it. The "cancel" row should contain copies of sorting key fields of the "state" and the opposite `Sign`. This increases the initial size of storage but allows us to write the data quickly.
2. Long growing arrays in columns reduce the efficiency of the engine due to the increased load for writing. The more straightforward the data, the higher the efficiency.
3. The `SELECT` results depend strongly on the consistency of the object change history. Be accurate when preparing data for inserting. You can get unpredictable results with inconsistent data. For example, negative values for non\-negative metrics such as session depth.

### Algorithm[​](#table_engine-collapsingmergetree-collapsing-algorithm "Direct link to Algorithm")

When ClickHouse merges data [parts](/docs/concepts/glossary#parts),
each group of consecutive rows with the same sorting key (`ORDER BY`) is reduced to no more than two rows,
the "state" row with `Sign` \= `1` and the "cancel" row with `Sign` \= `-1`.
In other words, in ClickHouse entries collapse.

For each resulting data part ClickHouse saves:
