---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/collapsingmergetree.md)#
topic: collapsingmergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

BY`) is reduced to no more than two rows, the "state" row with `Sign` \= `1` and the "cancel" row with `Sign` \= `-1`. In other words, in ClickHouse entries collapse. For each resulting data part ClickHouse saves:

| | 1\. The first "cancel" and the last "state" rows, if the number of "state" and "cancel" rows matches and the last row is a "state" row.| 2\. The last "state" row, if there are more "state" rows than "cancel" rows.| 3\. The first "cancel" row, if there are more "cancel" rows than "state" rows.| 4\. None of the rows, in all other cases. | | | | | | | | | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |


Additionally, when there are at least two more "state" rows than "cancel"
rows, or at least two more "cancel" rows than "state" rows, the merge continues.
ClickHouse, however, treats this situation as a logical error and records it in the server log.
This error can occur if the same data is inserted more than once.
Thus, collapsing should not change the results of calculating statistics.
Changes are gradually collapsed so that in the end only the last state of almost every object is left.

The `Sign` column is required because the merging algorithm does not guarantee
that all the rows with the same sorting key will be in the same resulting data part and even on the same physical server.
ClickHouse processes `SELECT` queries with multiple threads, and it cannot predict the order of rows in the result.

Aggregation is required if there is a need to get completely "collapsed" data from the `CollapsingMergeTree` table.
To finalize collapsing, write a query with the `GROUP BY` clause and aggregate functions that account for the sign.
For example, to calculate quantity, use `sum(Sign)` instead of `count()`.
To calculate the sum of something, use `sum(Sign * x)` together `HAVING sum(Sign) > 0` instead of `sum(x)`
as in the [example](#example-of-use) below.
