---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/best-practices/select_data_type.md)#
topic: selecting-data-types-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.130'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

mainly on three factors: the ordering key, data types, and codecs, all defined through the table schema. Choosing optimal data types yields immediate improvements in both storage and query performance. Some straightforward guidelines can significantly enhance the schema:

- **Use Strict Types:** Always select the correct data type for columns. Numeric and date fields should use appropriate numeric and date types rather than general\-purpose String types. This ensures correct semantics for filtering and aggregations.
- **Avoid nullable Columns:** Nullable columns introduce additional overhead by maintaining separate columns for tracking null values. Only use Nullable if explicitly required to distinguish between empty and null states. Otherwise, default or zero\-equivalent values typically suffice. For further information on why this type should be avoided unless needed, see [Avoid nullable Columns](/docs/best-practices/select-data-types#avoid-nullable-columns).
- **Minimize Numeric Precision:** Select numeric types with minimal bit\-width that still accommodate the expected data range. For instance, prefer [UInt16 over Int32](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint) if negative values aren't needed, and the range fits within 0–65535\.
- **Optimize Date and Time Precision:** Choose the most coarse\-grained date or datetime type that meets query requirements. Use Date or Date32 for date\-only fields, and prefer DateTime over DateTime64 unless millisecond or finer precision is essential.
- **Leverage LowCardinality and Specialized Types:** For columns with fewer than approximately 10,000 unique values, use LowCardinality types to significantly reduce storage through dictionary encoding. Similarly, use FixedString only when the column values are strictly fixed\-length strings (e.g., country or currency codes), and prefer Enum types for columns with a finite set of possible values to enable efficient storage and built\-in data validation.
- **Enums for data validation:** The Enum type can be used to efficiently encode enumerated types. Enums can either be 8 or 16 bits, depending on the number of unique values they're required to store. Consider using this if you need either the associated validation at insert time (undeclared values will be rejected) or wish to perform queries which exploit a natural ordering in the Enum values e.g. imagine a feedback column containing user responses Enum(':(' \= 1, ':\|' \= 2, ':)' \= 3\).

## Example[​](#example "Direct link to Example")
