---
source: blog
url: https://www.dash0.com/blog/opentelemetry-native-the-future-of-observability#what-does-an-open-telemetry-native-observability-tool-look-like
topic: building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-at-dash0
ch_version_introduced: '0.100000'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

disk: ``` ``` TTL toDateTime(Timestamp) + INTERVAL 25 HOUR TO VOLUME 'n_2_cold', toDateTime(Timestamp) + INTERVAL 13 MONTH DELETE ``` ``` The `ORDER BY` clause is important for two reasons: - Querying the data - Compression of the data

When designing our ClickHouse schemas, we made strategic trade\-offs with primary key selection. Unlike the [ClickHouse Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/bb534937e13c605cb3bf3e90c5358d859c5c7b5a/exporter/clickhouseexporter/exporter_logs.go#L160) that uses `service.name` in the primary key for all signals, we generate a hash of all attributes called `ResourceHash` that serves a similar purpose. Our primary key consists of `ResourceHash` followed by the `Timestamp` field.

Placing the `ResourceHash` / `service.name` before the `Timestamp` in the `ORDER BY` clause offers two key advantages:

- **Optimized Filtering**: With OpenTelemetry data, filtering by resource attributes \- and thus `ResourceHash` \- is common when correlating signals.This ordering allows ClickHouse to select fewer marks, reducing the number of records that need to be processed.
- **Better Compression**: Signals from the same service or process typically share similar characteristics \- especially resource attributes, but also e.g. log bodies, and span names. Ordering by `ResourceHash` groups similar data together, significantly improving ClickHouse's compression efficiency compared to `Timestamp` \-first ordering.

There's also a case to be made for reversing the order, first `Timestamp` and then `ResourceHash`. Since all Dash0 queries require a time frame, using first the `Timestamp` would efficiently narrow down the number of records that need to be selected, while a `ResourceHash` / `service.name` might not always be used for filtering. However, we mitigated this concern by using the day (from the `Timestamp`) as `PARTITION BY` key, which ensures ClickHouse only selects those parts within the specified time range for reading.

Although ClickHouse supports multiple primary keys for the same table through [projections](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/projection), we opted against this approach due to increased storage costs.

### Replication and sharding [\#](/blog/building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-at-dash0#replication-and-sharding)

With our ClickHouse cluster setup, we decided, at least for now, to use multiple replicas and only a single shard. While at some point in the future we might still move to a multi\-shard setup, for now this setup is simpler and sufficient for our needs.

With multiple shards, [table migrations need to be executed for every shard individually](https://clickhouse.com/docs/architecture/cluster-deployment). Also, other changes to the cluster are more complex.

## Dash0 functionality on top of ClickHouse [\#](/blog/building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-at-dash0#dash0-functionality-on-top-of-clickhouse)
