---
source: blog
url: https://www.dash0.com/blog/opentelemetry-native-the-future-of-observability#what-does-an-open-telemetry-native-observability-tool-look-like
topic: building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-at-dash0
ch_version_introduced: '0.100000'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

setup is simpler and sufficient for our needs. With multiple shards, [table migrations need to be executed for every shard individually](https://clickhouse.com/docs/architecture/cluster-deployment). Also, other changes to the cluster are more complex. ## Dash0 functionality on top of ClickHouse [\#](/blog/building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-at-dash0#dash0-functionality-on-top-of-clickhouse)

In this section we’ll go into the table schemas more, and some of the other ClickHouse features we use to support the Dash0 features.

### Metrics metadata [\#](/blog/building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-at-dash0#metrics-metadata)

The standard ClickHouse Exporter for the OpenTelemetry Collector stores all metrics information [per record and in separate tables based on metric type](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/d1d4d693eee7f81752c8270f8777fa585a480579/exporter/clickhouseexporter/internal/gauge_metrics.go#L20). This approach is inefficient because:

1. Metadata like `MetricName`, `MetricDescription`, and `MetricUnit` remain consistent across data points. Repeating this data for every data point results in significant data duplication. Even for the attributes per data point, these often share identical or similar attributes (e.g., `http.response.status_code` values of `200` and `500`) and thus could be deduplicated.
2. Map\-type columns for the attributes are slow to process and suboptimal as primary key components
3. Querying for a metric without knowing its type (sum, gauge, histogram, etc) requires searching across five different tables

To address these issues, we adopted a strategy already used by the Prometheus Remote Write library for ClickHouse and also implemented in ClickHouse's own [Time\-Series engine](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/special/time_series#target-tables): storing metadata in a separate table with an ID that references the actual values.

While we still maintain separate tables for different metric types (as they require different column structures), this approach dramatically improves compression. A simplified version of our gauge table looks like this:

```

```
CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS otel.otel_metrics_gauge
(
 `MetricHash` UInt64 Codec(LZ4),
 `StartTimeUnix` DateTime64(9) CODEC(Delta, LZ4),
 `TimeUnix` DateTime64(9) CODEC(Delta, LZ4),
 `Value` Float64 CODEC(LZ4),
)
ENGINE MergeTree
PARTITION BY toDate(TimeUnix)
ORDER BY (MetricHash, TimeUnix)
```

```

The `MetricHash` acts as the join column with the metadata table, further described below.

Since metrics normally are collected at a fixed rate \- for example, every 15 seconds \- the `Delta` compression on the `TimeUnix` column works really well. And also values themselves usually don't change that much ensuring change values are small, resulting in good compression.

The metrics metadata table looks like this:
