---
source: blog
url: https://www.dash0.com/blog/opentelemetry-native-the-future-of-observability#what-does-an-open-telemetry-native-observability-tool-look-like
topic: building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-at-dash0
ch_version_introduced: '0.100000'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

often requires creating new tables rather than modifying existing ones. This presents the main challenge when using sampling: finding the optimal `ORDER BY` clause that works well with both regular or sampled queries. When implementing sampling, we recommend:

1. Thoroughly benchmarking various options to ensure existing performance doesn't degrade
2. Using `EXPLAIN indexes=1 <query>` to analyze how selection of parts and granules is affected by different table sorting keys and secondary indexes

Another thing that is good to be aware of, is that the potentially sampling rates depend on the type chosen. This can be any type from `UInt8` to `UInt64`. That also means decreasing the number of 'groups' in favour of better ordering, e.g. as `xxh3(SpanId) % 10` to create just 10 groups, does not work. Even if using `UInt8`, ClickHouse assumes 256 ‘groups’ and selecting a 0\.1 sample rate would result in a query `WHERE <sample_column> < 26`, which as you see would still select 100% of the records.

Thus, the type chosen for the column also determines the maximum sample ratio that can be chosen. With `UInt8`, the lowest sample rate is \~ 0\.003\. If you try to go lower, ClickHouse determines it cannot do sampling and instead will scan all records.

#### Our approach [\#](/blog/building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-at-dash0#our-approach)

Given the sorting key we had and the above information about sampling (some of which we found out during the benchmarking), we had a few different sorting keys in mind that we wanted to evaluate. Our original sorting key for the spans table was `ORDER BY (ResourceHash, Timestamp)`

The `ORDER BY` clauses we thought could work:

- (traces2\) `toStartOfHour(Timestamp), ResourceHash, xxh3(SpanId)`
- (traces3\) `ResourceHash, SpanName, xxh3(SpanId)`
- (traces4\) `ResourceHash, toStartOfHour(Timestamp), xxh3(SpanId)`
- (traces5\) `xxh3(SpanId) % 256, ResourceHash, Timestamp`

For each of these sorting keys, we created a separate table and loaded 3 days of data. We determined we wanted to verify a few things:

- Compression ratio, to ensure storage costs would not dramatically increase for the new schemas
- Query times for existing, so non\-sampled queries
- Query times when using sampling
- Validate primary and secondary (data\-skipping) index usage to cross\-check numbers from previous queries make sense
