---
source: blog
url: https://www.dash0.com/blog/opentelemetry-native-the-future-of-observability#what-does-an-open-telemetry-native-observability-tool-look-like
topic: building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-at-dash0
ch_version_introduced: '0.100000'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

best to minimize JOINs whenever possible (although the ClickHouse team is heavily investing in this area, so stay tuned!) In most scenarios, ClickHouse performs better with sub\-selects rather than JOINs. However, when JOINs are needed, consider these recommendations:

- **Use the correct type of JOIN**. If a value on the left\-hand side matches multiple values on the right\-hand side, the JOIN will return multiple rows \- the so\-called cartesian product. If your use case doesn't need all matches from the right\-hand side but just any single match, you can use `ANY` JOINs (e.g. `LEFT ANY JOIN`). They are faster and use less memory than regular JOINs. Consult ClickHouse's documentation and blog articles for guidance on selecting optimal JOIN types.
- **Reduce the sizes of JOINed tables.** The runtime and memory consumption of JOINs grows proportionally with the sizes of the left and right tables. To reduce the amount of processed data by the JOIN, add additional filter conditions in the `WHERE` or `JOIN ON` clauses of the query. ClickHouse pushes filter conditions as deep as possible down in the query plan, usually before JOINs. If the filters are not pushed down automatically (confirm with `EXPLAIN`), rewrite one side of the JOIN as a sub\-query to force pushdown. You can also try including relevant filters directly in the JOIN condition to reduce the data volume e.g. `JOIN … ON a.ServiceName = b.ServiceName AND b.Timestamp > startTime AND b.Timestamp < endTime` . The ClickHouse team is investing in supporting automatic predicate pushdown, so this advice is subject to change.
- **Default values as no\-match markers in outer JOINs**. Left/right/full outer joins include all values from the left/right/both tables. If no join partner is found in the other table for some value, ClickHouse replaces the join partner with a special marker. The SQL standard mandates that databases use NULL as such a marker. In ClickHouse, this requires wrapping the result column in Nullable, creating an additional memory and performance overhead. As an alternative, you can configure the setting `join_use_nulls = 0` and use the default value of the result column data type as a marker.

> As the ClickHouse team invests heavily in JOIN performance, we expect the above recommendations to change and become redundant. Always check the documentation and release posts for the latest improvements.
