---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/test_s3_disk/</endpoint>
topic: setup-maintenance-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '98.091'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 25
total_chunks_in_doc: 186
---

with a query/connection, it’s already too late: ``` SETTINGS receive_timeout = 3600, send_timeout = 3600, http_receive_timeout = 3600, http_send_timeout = 3600, http_connection_timeout = 2 ``` Those can be set on the query level (but in the profile, too):

```
SETTINGS
    tcp_keep_alive_timeout = 3600,
    --!!!send_progress_in_http_headers = 1,
    http_headers_progress_interval_ms = 10000,
    http_wait_end_of_query = 1,
    max_execution_time = 3600

```
[https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/language\-clients/javascript\#keep\-alive\-nodejs\-only](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/language-clients/javascript#keep-alive-nodejs-only)

`send_progress_in_http_headers`  will not be applied in this way because here we can configure the JDBC driver’s client options only ([this](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-java/blob/main/clickhouse-client/src/main/java/com/clickhouse/client/config/ClickHouseClientOption.java)
), but there is an option called `custom_settings`  ([this](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-java/blob/main/clickhouse-client/src/main/java/com/clickhouse/client/config/ClickHouseClientOption.java#L34C22-L34C37)
) that will apply custom ch query settings for every query before the actual connection is created. The correct JDBC connection string will look like this:

```
jdbc:clickhouse://"${clickhouse.host}"/"${clickhouse.db}"?ssl=true&socket_timeout=3600000&socket_keepalive=true&custom_settings=send_progress_in_http_headers=1

```
### Description

- `http_send_timeout & send_timeout`: The timeout for sending data to the socket. If the server takes longer than this value to send data, the connection will be terminated (i.e., when the server pushes data to the client, and the client is not reading that for some reason).
- `http_receive_timeout & receive_timeout:` The timeout for receiving data from the socket. If the server takes longer than this value to receive the entire request from the client, the connection will be terminated. This setting ensures that the server is not kept waiting indefinitely for slow or unresponsive clients (i.e., the server tries to get some data from the client, but the client does not send anything).
- `http_connection_timeout & connect_timeout`: Defines how long ClickHouse should wait when it connects to another server. If the connection cannot be established within this time frame, it will be terminated. This does not impact the clients which connect to ClickHouse using HTTP (it only matters when ClickHouse works as a TCP/HTTP client).
- `keep_alive_timeout`: This is for ‘Connection: keep\-alive’ in HTTP 1\.1, only for HTTP. It defines how long ClickHouse can wait for the next request in the same connection to arrive after serving the previous one. It does not lead to any SOCKET\_TIMEOUT exception, just closes the socket if the client doesn’t start a new request after that time.
