---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/test_s3_disk/</endpoint>
topic: setup-maintenance-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '98.091'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 26
total_chunks_in_doc: 186
---

for the next request in the same connection to arrive after serving the previous one. It does not lead to any SOCKET\_TIMEOUT exception, just closes the socket if the client doesn’t start a new request after that time.

💡 In 23\.12 \`keep\_alive\_timeout\` was introduced default of 10 seconds. Before 23\.12 default \`keep\_alive\_timeout\` configured on clickhouse side was 3\. For 23\.8 \`keep\_alive\_timeout\` is not present as a server setting in \`system.server\_settings\` table but if is in the config.xml.- `sync_request_timeout` – timeout for server ping. Defaults to 5 seconds.

In some cases, if the data sync request time out, it may be caused by many different reasons, basically it shouldn’t take more than 5 seconds for synchronous request\-result protocol call (like Ping or TableStatus) in most of the normal circumstances, thus if time out setting too long, eg. 5 minutes or longer than that, then you will run into more overall performance issues. This is not good for any application on the server.

### How to check the current timeouts:

```
SELECT
    name,
    value,
    changed,
    description
FROM system.settings
WHERE (name ILIKE '%send_timeout%') OR (name ILIKE '%receive_timeout%') OR (name ILIKE '%keep_alive%') OR (name ILIKE '%_http_headers') OR (name ILIKE 'http_headers_progres_%') OR (name ILIKE 'http_connection_%')

```
# 10 \- Compatibility layer for the Altinity Kubernetes Operator for ClickHouse®

Page description for heading and indexes.It’s possible to expose `clickhouse-server` metrics in the style used by the Altinity Kubernetes Operator for ClickHouse®. It’s for the `clickhouse-operator` grafana dashboard.
