---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/test_s3_disk/</endpoint>
topic: setup-maintenance-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '98.091'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 67
total_chunks_in_doc: 186
---

ensure your client is doing retries properly. > **Q. We are wondering what is causing that session to “timeout” as the default looks like 30 seconds, and there’s certainly stuff happening much more frequently than every 30 seconds.**

Typically that has nothing with an expiration/timeout \- even if you do nothing there are heartbeat events in the Zookeeper protocol.

So internally inside ClickHouse:

1. we have a ‘zookeeper client’ which in practice is a single Zookeeper connection (TCP socket), with 2 threads \- one serving reads, the seconds serving writes, and some API around.
2. while everything is ok Zookeeper client keeps a single logical ‘zookeeper session’ (also by sending heartbeats etc).
3. we may have hundreds of ‘users’ of that Zookeeper client \- those are threads that do some housekeeping, serve queries etc.
4. Zookeeper client normally have dozen ‘in\-flight’ requests (asked by different threads). And if something bad happens with that
(disconnect, some issue with Zookeeper server, some other failure), Zookeeper client needs to re\-establish the connection and switch to the new session
so all those ‘in\-flight’ requests will be terminated with a ‘session expired’ exception.

> **Q. That problem happens very often (all the time, every X minutes / hours / days).**

Sometimes the real issue can be visible somewhere close to the first ‘session expired’ exception in the log. (i.e. Zookeeper client thread can
know \& print to logs the real reason, while all ‘user’ threads just get ‘session expired’).

Also Zookeeper logs may ofter have a clue to that was the real problem.

Known issues which can lead to session termination by Zookeeper:
