---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/test_s3_disk/</endpoint>
topic: setup-maintenance-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '98.091'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 80
total_chunks_in_doc: 186
---

usual conditions ClickHouse being limited by throughput of volumes and amount of provided IOPS doesn’t make any big difference for performance starting from a certain number. So the most native choice for ClickHouse is gp3 and gp2 volumes.

‌EC2 instances also have an EBS throughput limit, it depends on the size of the EC2 instance. That means if you would attach multiple volumes which would have high potential throughput, you would be limited by your EC2 instance, so usually there is no reason to have more than 1\-3 GP3 volume or 4\-5 GP2 volume per node.

It’s pretty straightforward to set up a ClickHouse for using multiple EBS volumes with jbod storage\_policies.

[general purpose](https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/general-purpose/)

| **Volume type** | gp3 | gp2 |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **Max throughput per volume** | 1000 MiB/s | 250 MiB/s |
| **Price** | $0\.08/GB\-month3,000 IOPS free and$0\.005/provisioned IOPS\-month over 3,000;125 MB/s free and$0\.04/provisioned MB/s\-month over 125 | $0\.10/GB\-month |

### GP3

It’s **recommended option**, as it allow you to have only one volume, for instances which have less than 10 Gbps EBS Bandwidth (nodes \=\<32 VCPU usually) and still have maximum performance.
For bigger instances, it make sense to look into option of having several GP3 volumes.

It’s a new type of volume, which is 20% cheaper than gp2 per GB\-month and has lower free throughput: only 125 MiB/s vs 250 MiB/s. But you can buy additional throughput and IOPS for volume. It also works better if most of your queries read only one or several parts, because in that case you are not being limited by performance of a single EBS disk, as parts can be located only on one disk at once.

Because, you need to have less GP3 volumes compared to GP2 option, it’s suggested approach for now.

For best performance, it’s suggested to buy:

- 7000 IOPS
- Throughput up to the limit of your EC2 instance (1000 MiB/s is safe option)

### GP2

‌GP2 volumes have a hard limit of 250 MiB/s per volume (for volumes bigger than 334 GB), it usually makes sense to split one big volume in multiple smaller volumes larger than 334GB in order to have maximum possible throughput.

## Throughput Optimized HDD volumes

### ST1
