---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/test_s3_disk/</endpoint>
topic: setup-maintenance-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '98.091'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 86
total_chunks_in_doc: 186
---

and changelog was analyzed, known issues are documented, and at least few big companies use it on production. All those things take some time, so usually that means that Altinity Stable is always a ‘behind’ the main releases.

Altinity version \- is an option for conservative users, who prefer bit older but better known things.

Usually there is no reason to use version older than Altinity Stable. If you see that new Altinity Version arrived and you still use some older version \- you should for sure consider an upgrade.

Additionally for Altinity client we provide extra support for those version for a longer time (and we also support newer versions).

### Which version should I use?

We recommend the following approach:

1. When you start using ClickHouse and before you go on production \- pick the latest stable version.
2. If you already have ClickHouse running on production:
	1. Check all the new queries / schemas on the staging first, especially if some new ClickHouse features are used.
	2. Do minor (bugfix) upgrades regularly: monitor new maintenance releases of the feature release you use.
	3. When considering upgrade \- check [Altinity Stable release docs](https://docs.altinity.com/altinitystablerelease/)
	, if you want to use newer release \- analyze changelog and known issues.
	4. Check latest stable or test versions of ClickHouse on your staging environment regularly and pass the feedback to us or on the [official ClickHouse github](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse)
	.
	5. Consider blue/green or canary upgrades.

See also: <https://clickhouse.tech/docs/en/faq/operations/production/>

## How do I upgrade?

Follow this KB article for [ClickHouse version upgrade](https://kb.altinity.com/upgrade/)

## Bugs?

ClickHouse development process goes in a very high pace and has already thousands of features. CI system doing tens of thousands of tests (including tests with different sanitizers) against every commit.

All core features are well\-tested, and very stable, and code is high\-quality. But as with any other software bad things may happen. Usually the most of bugs happens in the new, freshly added functionality, and in some complex combination of several features (of course all possible combinations of features just physically can’t be tested). Usually new features are adopted by the community and stabilize quickly.

### What should I do if I found a bug in ClickHouse?
