---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/test_s3_disk/</endpoint>
topic: setup-maintenance-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '98.091'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 87
total_chunks_in_doc: 186
---

of several features (of course all possible combinations of features just physically can’t be tested). Usually new features are adopted by the community and stabilize quickly. ### What should I do if I found a bug in ClickHouse?

1. First of all: try to upgrade to the latest bugfix release Example: if you use v21\.3\.5\.42\-lts but you know that v21\.3\.10\.1\-lts already exists \- start with upgrade to that. Upgrades to latest maintenance releases are smooth and safe.
2. Look for similar issues in github. Maybe the fix is on the way.
3. If you can reproduce the bug: try to isolate it \- remove some pieces of query one\-by\-one / simplify the scenario until the issue still reproduces. This way you can figure out which part is responsible for that bug, and you can try to create [minimal reproducible example](https://stackoverflow.com/help/minimal-reproducible-example)
4. Once you have minimal reproducible example:
	1. report it to github (or to Altinity Support)
	2. check if it reproduces on newer ClickHouse versions
# 42 \- Configure ClickHouse® for low memory environments

Configure ClickHouse® for low memory environmentsWhile Clickhouse® it’s typically deployed on powerful servers with ample memory and CPU, it can be deployed in resource\-constrained environments like a Raspberry Pi. Whether you’re working on edge computing, IoT data collection, or simply experimenting with ClickHouse in a small\-scale setup, running it efficiently on low\-memory hardware can be a rewarding challenge.

TLDR;
