---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/test_s3_disk/</endpoint>
topic: setup-maintenance-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '98.091'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 116
total_chunks_in_doc: 186
---

never sees tasks for the Host1 because is looking tasks for **xdgt634678d.** The same with internal VS external IP addresses. ## DDLWorker thread crashed That causes ClickHouse to stop executing `ON CLUSTER` tasks. Check that DDLWorker is alive:

```
ps -eL|grep DDL
18829 18876 ?        00:00:00 DDLWorkerClnr
18829 18879 ?        00:00:00 DDLWorker

ps -ef|grep 18829|grep -v grep
clickho+ 18829 18828  1 Feb09 ?        00:55:00 /usr/bin/clickhouse-server --con...

```
As you can see there are two threads: `DDLWorker` and `DDLWorkerClnr`.

The second thread – `DDLWorkerCleaner` cleans old tasks from `task_queue`. You can configure how many recent tasks to store:

```
config.xml
<yandex>
    <distributed_ddl>
        <path>/clickhouse/task_queue/ddl</path>
        <pool_size>1</pool_size>
        <max_tasks_in_queue>1000</max_tasks_in_queue>
        <task_max_lifetime>604800</task_max_lifetime>
        <cleanup_delay_period>60</cleanup_delay_period>
    </distributed_ddl>
</yandex>

```
Default values:

**cleanup\_delay\_period** \= 60 seconds – Sets how often to start cleanup to remove outdated data.

**task\_max\_lifetime** \= 7 \* 24 \* 60 \* 60 (in seconds \= week) – Delete task if its age is greater than that.

**max\_tasks\_in\_queue** \= 1000 – How many tasks could be in the queue.

**pool\_size** \= 1 \- How many ON CLUSTER queries can be run simultaneously.

## Too intensive stream of ON CLUSTER command

Generally, it’s a bad design, but you can increase pool\_size setting

## Stuck DDL tasks in the distributed\_ddl\_queue

Sometimes [DDL tasks](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-ddlworker/)
(the ones that use ON CLUSTER) can get stuck in the `distributed_ddl_queue` because the replicas can overload if multiple DDLs (thousands of CREATE/DROP/ALTER) are executed at the same time. This is very normal in heavy ETL jobs.This can be detected by checking the `distributed_ddl_queue` table and see if there are tasks that are not moving or are stuck for a long time.

If these DDLs are completed in some replicas but failed in others, the simplest way to solve this is to execute the failed command in the missed replicas without ON CLUSTER. If most of the DDLs failed, then check the number of unfinished records in `distributed_ddl_queue` on the other nodes, because most probably it will be as high as thousands.

First, backup the `distributed_ddl_queue` into a table so you will have a snapshot of the table with the states of the tasks. You can do this with the following command:
