---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/test_s3_disk/</endpoint>
topic: setup-maintenance-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '98.091'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 132
total_chunks_in_doc: 186
---

have a JBOD volume with differing disk sizes. To prevent hot\-spots, it is best to set this policy on a fresh volume or on a volume that has already been (re)balanced. Drawbacks: may lead to hot\-spots ## Configurations

Configurations that can affect disk selected:

- storage policy volume configuration: `least_used_ttl_ms`. Only applies to `least_used` policy, 60s default.
- disk setting: `keep_free_space_bytes` , `keep_free_space_ratio`

Configuration to assist rebalancing:

- The MergeTree setting `min_bytes_to_rebalance_partition_over_jbod` does not control where data is written during inserts. Instead, it governs how parts are redistributed across disks within the same volume during merge operations.

> Note: setting `min_bytes_to_rebalance_partition_over_jbod` does not guarantee balanced partitions and balanced disk usage.

Example of least\_used policy:

```
<clickhouse>
  <storage_configuration>
    <disks>
     <default>
       <path>/var/lib/clickhouse/</path>
        <keep_free_space_bytes>10737418240</keep_free_space_bytes>
      </disk1>
      <disk1>
        <path>/mnt/disk1/</path>
        <keep_free_space_bytes>10737418240</keep_free_space_bytes>
      </disk1>
      <disk2>
        <path>/mnt/disk2/</path>
        <keep_free_space_bytes>10737418240</keep_free_space_bytes>
      </disk2>
    </disks>
    <policies>
      <hot>
        <volumes>
          <default>
            <disk>disk1</disk>
            <disk>disk2</disk>
            <load_balancing>least_used</load_balancing>
            <least_used_ttl_ms>60000</least_used_ttl_ms> <!-- 60s -->
          </default>
        </volumes>
      </hot>
    </policies>
  </storage_configuration>
</clickhouse>

```
## Manual Rebalancing Parts over JBOD Disks

Following query will select large parts in target\_tables and target\_databases that can be candidates to move to another disk. Disk chosen should comply with the following requirements:

- Should only select valid moves for the same storage\_policy used by that table
- storage\_policy must be JBODs type
- moves to other disks in the same volume
- select a different disk, i.e not the same disk as the one that part is in
- select the disk to move the part to by order of largest free\_space on that disk

Set `target_tables` and `target_databases` based on requirements.
