---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/test_s3_disk/</endpoint>
topic: setup-maintenance-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '98.091'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 139
total_chunks_in_doc: 186
---

users.xml. These are part of the profile . - \<max\_execution\_time\> - \<log\_queries\> The following extra debug logs should be considered: - part\_log - text\_log ### Understanding The Configuration ClickHouse configuration stores most of its information in two files:

- config.xml: Stores [Server configuration parameters](https://clickhouse.yandex/docs/en/operations/server_settings/)
. They are server wide, some are hierarchical , and most of them can’t be changed in runtime. The list of settings to apply without a restart changes from version to version. Some settings can be verified using system tables, for example:
	- macros (system.macros)
	- remote\_servers (system.clusters)
- users.xml: Configure users, and user level / session level [settings](https://clickhouse.yandex/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/)
.
	- Each user can change these during their session by:
		- Using parameter in http query
		- By using parameter for clickhouse\-client
		- Sending query like set allow\_experimental\_data\_skipping\_indices\=1\.
	- Those settings and their current values are visible in system.settings. You can make some settings global by editing default profile in users.xml, which does not need restart.
	- You can forbid users to change their settings by using readonly\=2 for that user, or using [setting constraints](https://clickhouse.yandex/docs/en/operations/settings/constraints_on_settings/)
	.
	- Changes in users.xml are applied w/o restart.

For both config.xml and users.xml, it’s preferable to put adjustments in the config.d and users.d subfolders instead of editing config.xml and users.xml directly.

You can check if the config file was reread by checking /var/lib/clickhouse/preprocessed\_configs/ folder.

# 55\.4 \- Hardware Requirements

Hardware Requirements### ClickHouse®

ClickHouse will use all available hardware to maximize performance. So the more hardware \- the better. As of this publication, the hardware requirements are:

- Minimum Hardware: 4\-core CPU with support of SSE4\.2, 16 Gb RAM, 1Tb HDD.
	- Recommended for development and staging environments.
	- SSE4\.2 is required, and going below 4 Gb of RAM is not recommended.
- Recommended Hardware: \>\=16\-cores, \>\=64Gb RAM, HDD\-raid or SSD.
	- For processing up to hundreds of millions / billions of rows.

For clouds: disk throughput is the more important factor compared to IOPS. Be aware of burst / baseline disk speed difference.

See also: <https://benchmark.clickhouse.com/hardware/>

### **Zookeeper**

Zookeeper requires separate servers from those used for ClickHouse. Zookeeper has poor performance when installed on the same node as ClickHouse.

Hardware Requirements for Zookeeper:
