---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/BUCKET_NAME/test_s3_disk/</endpoint>
topic: setup-maintenance-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '98.091'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 141
total_chunks_in_doc: 186
---

and an isolated power supply. - For Clouds Environments: Use different availability zones between the ClickHouse replicas when possible (but be aware of the interzone traffic costs) These considerations are the same as the Zookeeper nodes. For example:

| **Rack** | **Server** | **Server** | **Server** | **Server** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| **Rack 1** | **CH\_SHARD1\_R1** | **CH\_SHARD2\_R1** | **CH\_SHARD3\_R1** | **ZOO\_1** |
| **Rack 2** | **CH\_SHARD1\_R2** | **CH\_SHARD2\_R2** | **CH\_SHARD3\_R2** | **ZOO\_2** |
| **Rack 3** | **ZOO3** |  |  |  |

#### **Network Ports And Firewall**

ClickHouse listens the following ports:

- 9000: clickhouse\-client, native clients, other clickhouse\-servers connect to here.
- 8123: HTTP clients
- 9009: Other replicas will connect here to download data.

For more information, see [CLICKHOUSE NETWORKING, PART 1](https://www.altinity.com/blog/2019/3/15/clickhouse-networking-part-1)
.

Zookeeper listens the following ports:

- 2181: Client connections.
- 2888: Inter\-ensemble connections.
- 3888: Leader election.

Outbound traffic from ClickHouse connects to the following ports:

- ZooKeeper: On port 2181\.
- Other CH nodes in the cluster: On port 9000 and 9009\.
- Dictionary sources: Depending on what was configured such as HTTP, MySQL, Mongo, etc.
- Kafka or Hadoop: If those integrations were enabled.

### **SSL**

For non\-trusted networks enable SSL/HTTPS. If acceptable, it is better to keep interserver communications unencrypted for performance reasons.

### **Naming Schema**

The best time to start creating a naming schema for the servers is before they’re created and configured.

There are a few features based on good server naming in ClickHouse:

- clickhouse\-client prompts: Allows a different prompt for clickhouse\-client per server hostname.
- Nearest hostname load balancing: For more information, see [Nearest Hostname](https://clickhouse.yandex/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/#load_balancing-nearest_hostname)
.

A good option is to use the following:

{datacenter}\-{serverroom}\-{rack identifier}\-{clickhouse cluster identifier}\-{shard number or server number}.

Other examples:

- rxv\-olap\-ch\-master\-sh01\-r01:
	- rxv \- location (rack\#15\)
	- olap \- product name
	- ch \= clickhouse
	- master \= stage
	- sh01 \= shard 1
	- r01 \= replica 1
- hetnzerde1\-ch\-prod\-01\.local:
	- hetnzerde1 \- location (also replica id)
	- ch \= clickhouse
	- prod \= stage
	- 01 \- server number / shard number in that DC
- sh01\.ch\-front.dev.aws\-east1a.example.com:
	- sh01 \- shard 01
	- ch\-front \- cluster name
	- dev \= stage
	- aws \= cloud provider
	- east1a \= region and availability zone
