---
source: blog
url: https://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/data_lakehouse
topic: clickhouse-and-parquet-a-foundation-for-fast-lakehouse-analytics
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 17
---

main focus is on how much of the total data the query engine had to process to execute the query. The entries in the chart are sorted by cold runtime (fastest first), and three key observations stand out:

1. **MergeTree**: As ClickHouse’s [native format](https://clickhouse.com/docs/parts), MergeTree enables the most aggressive I/O reduction, leveraging the [full stack of optimizations](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization#the-building-blocks-of-io-efficiency-in-clickhouse), including [PREWHERE](https://clickhouse.com/docs/optimize/prewhere) and [lazy materialization](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization). In this query, only 19 MiB of data [was](https://github.com/ClickHouse/examples/blob/main/blog-examples/FastFormatReads/clickhouse/results/clickhouse_mergetree_100000000_1746193290.json) processed out of 10 GiB total, thanks largely to the [sparse primary index](https://clickhouse.com/docs/primary-indexes), which efficiently scans index entries for multiple compound primary key predicate columns at once and selects matching row groups based on the physical data order on disk. This results in extremely low query latency, just 30 milliseconds cold and 10 milliseconds hot. Which was [expected](/blog/clickhouse-and-parquet-a-foundation-for-fast-lakehouse-analytics#apples-vs-oranges) for a highly optimized *table engine*.
2. **Parquet**: When querying Parquet files directly, ClickHouse already cuts I/O roughly in half using [predicate pushdowns](/blog/clickhouse-and-parquet-a-foundation-for-fast-lakehouse-analytics#io-reduction-what-we-skip-and-how) (min/max stats and Bloom filters). However, current limitations—such as the absence of PREWHERE and lazy materialization—mean there is still room for improvement. Still, it performs well: in this query, 7 GiB out of 14 GiB [was](https://github.com/ClickHouse/examples/blob/main/blog-examples/FastFormatReads/results/parquet_100000000_1000000_sorted_zstd_1746194936.json) processed, and thanks to high parallelism (85 concurrent threads), it completed in 170 milliseconds cold and 140 milliseconds hot, roughly 5× slower than MergeTree, but still very fast for a *file format*.
3. Other formats: Most of the other input formats (e.g., **CSV**, **JSON**, **Arrow**) are primarily intended for easy data loading, or in the case of **Native**, for [efficient inter\-system data transport](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient), not for direct analytical querying. As a result, ClickBench query 41 took 30–43 s cold and 29–42 s hot. While it’s technically possible to implement I/O reduction techniques like column projection for these formats, ClickHouse doesn’t currently do so, because these formats aren’t typically considered for direct analytical use at scale. In practice, this means the full dataset (up to 21 GiB) often needs to be scanned and parsed.

#### All 43 queries: Total runtime comparison [\#](/blog/clickhouse-and-parquet-a-foundation-for-fast-lakehouse-analytics#all-43-queries-total-runtime-comparison)

To complete the picture, the chart below focuses on the total runtimes across *all* 43 ClickBench queries run directly over the same file formats as in the previous chart. To keep things concise, we report only the runtime *sums*. As before, the queried dataset was stored on disk pre\-sorted and ZSTD\-compressed for each format.
