---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/the-state-of-sql-based-observability
topic: the-evolution-of-sql-based-observability
ch_version_introduced: '40.77'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

existing IT environment. With this in mind, and in the interest of ensuring our users are successful, we provided a simple checklist to help users determine if SQL\-based observability was them. Specifically, SQL\-based observability is for you if:

- You or your team(s) are familiar with SQL (or want to learn it)
- You prefer adhering to open standards like OpenTelemetry to avoid lock\-in and achieve extensibility.
- You are willing to run an ecosystem fueled by open\-source innovation from collection to storage and visualization.
- You envision some growth to medium or large volumes of observability data under management (or even very large volumes)
- You want to be in control of the TCO (total cost of ownership) and [break free from rising observability costs](/blog/breaking-free-from-rising-observability-costs-with-open-cost-efficient-architectures) common with legacy, seat\-based platforms.
- You can’t or don’t want to get stuck with small data retention periods for your observability data just to manage the costs.

SQL\-based observability may not be for you if:

- Learning (or generating!) SQL is not appealing to you or your team(s).
- You are looking for a packaged, end\-to\-end observability experience.
- Your observability data volumes are too small to make any significant difference (e.g. \<150 GiB) and are not forecasted to grow.
- Your use case is metrics\-heavy and needs PromQL. In that case, you can still use ClickHouse for logs and tracing beside Prometheus for metrics, unifying it at the presentation layer with Grafana.
- You prefer to wait for the ecosystem to mature more and SQL\-based observability to get more turnkey.

**The question, as 2024 draws to a close, is: has this changed given the developments in ClickHouse?**

## JSON support! A game changer for observability? [\#](/blog/evolution-of-sql-based-observability-with-clickhouse#json-support-a-game-changer-for-observability)

Before discussing the recent developments in JSON support, it's important to outline both what we mean by JSON support, why it's important for observability, and the challenges our users currently face.

### What do we mean by JSON support? [\#](/blog/evolution-of-sql-based-observability-with-clickhouse#what-do-we-mean-by-json-support)
