---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/the-state-of-sql-based-observability
topic: the-evolution-of-sql-based-observability
ch_version_introduced: '40.77'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

and can vary significantly based on the source and application, as well as potentially changing over time. While the Map type allowed users to store these fields by supporting dynamic addition of keys, it incurs some significant disadvantages:

- **Loss of type precision** \- Field name and values in this representation are held as Strings, with the Map only supporting a single type as the value (users can now use [Variant](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/variant) as the value to the Map). The String type is applied here as the "unified" type. This meant more complex comparisons on values that were numeric required a query time cast. This is both more verbose and inefficient, impacting query latency and memory overhead of a query.
- **Single\-column implementation with linear complexity** \- All of the nested JSON paths are held in a single\-column value. When accessing a specific known key in the Map, ClickHouse is required to [load all values in the Map and linearly scan](https://clickhouse.com/docs/knowledgebase/improve-map-performance). This incurs a significant IO overhead, which is effectively wasted when only a single path is being read, making queries on maps with large numbers of keys inefficient and slower than users expect. To address this, users would extract values from the Map using [materialized columns at insert time](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/observability/schema-design#materialized-columns)**.**
- **Obfuscation of available keys** \- By storing the JSON paths as map keys, the user is unable to identify the available paths for querying without a query. While [possible, this requires an expensive linear scan](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/observability/schema-design#using-maps) in order to identify all available keys. While this can be addressed with materialized views to compute this set at insert time, it adds additional complexity and requires UI tooling to integrate with the output in order to provide useful query guidance features.
- **Lack of support for nested structures** \- Using a String as the Map value type limits it to one level only. Other types in ClickHouse, such as [Tuple](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/tuple) and [Nested](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/nested-data-structures/nested), supported nested structures but these required specification of the structure in advance of receiving the data.

The new JSON type addresses all of these challenges, providing an efficient means of supporting dynamically nested structures while retaining precision and the performance associated with statically typed columns.

### Efficient JSON support [\#](/blog/evolution-of-sql-based-observability-with-clickhouse#efficient-json-support)
