---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/the-state-of-sql-based-observability
topic: the-evolution-of-sql-based-observability
ch_version_introduced: '40.77'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

16LogAttributes: {"referer":"-","remote_addr":"40.77.167.129","remote_user":"-","request_path":"\/image\/14925\/productModel\/100x100","request_protocol":"HTTP\/1.1","request_type":"GET","response_time":23.2,"run_time":0,"size":1696.22,"status":"500","time_local":"2019-01-22 00:26:17.000000000","user_agent":"Mozilla\/5.0 (compatible; bingbot\/2.0; +http:\/\/www.bing.com\/bingbot.htm)"} 17 182 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.012 sec. ``` ``` > By default, 64\-bit integers are quoted in output (for Javascript). We disable this for example purposes here with the setting `output_format_json_quote_64bit_integers=0`.

Our previous query is now more natural and respects the type differences of the data:

```
  
```
1SELECT LogAttributes.status as status, max(LogAttributes.response_time.:Float64) as max FROM otel_logs GROUP BY status
2
3┌─status─┬──max─┐
4│ 200	│ ᴺᵁᴸᴸ │
5│ 500	│ 23.2 │
6└────────┴──────┘
7
82 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.006 sec.
```


```

As well as explicitly accessing the Float64 variant of the `response_time` column, we have a slight difference in the response here as our empty value is treated as Null not 0\. Finally, we can see the presence of multiple types for the column using the distinctJSONPathsAndTypes function.

```

```
1SELECT distinctJSONPathsAndTypes(LogAttributes)
2FROM otel_logs
3FORMAT Vertical
4
5Row 1:
6──────
7distinctJSONPathsAndTypes(LogAttributes): {'referer':['String'],'remote_addr':['String'],'remote_user':['String'],'request_path':['String'],'request_protocol':['String'],'request_type':['String'],'response_time':['Float64','String'],'run_time':['Int64','String'],'size':['Float64','String'],'status':['Int64','String'],'time_local':['DateTime64(9)'],'user_agent':['String']}
8
91 row in set. Elapsed: 0.008 sec.
```


```

## Increasing maturity of the observability ecosystem [\#](/blog/evolution-of-sql-based-observability-with-clickhouse#increasing-maturity-of-the-observability-ecosystem)

While the development of the JSON feature in core ClickHouse will simplify adoption and speed up queries, we’ve also continued to invest in the wider Observability ecosystem. This has focused on two efforts: support for ClickHouse in the Open Telemetry Collector and enhancement of the [Grafana plugin for ClickHouse](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-clickhouse-datasource/).

### OpenTelemetry [\#](/blog/evolution-of-sql-based-observability-with-clickhouse#opentelemetry)

In OpenTelemetry, we have [focused on the challenge of designing an open\-source schema](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-and-open-telemtry) for ClickHouse, which balances versatility with performance. Observability data can vary widely in structure and purpose, and optimizing schemas for ClickHouse requires consideration of the specific use case. We have invested effort in providing default schemas for the OpenTelemetry Collector which are optimized for getting started with a "one size fits most" approach.

It's more important to emphasize these schemas are intended as starting points rather than production implementations. Users with unique needs, such as specific filtering by service or Kubernetes pod names, are encouraged to customize their schemas for optimal performance. To enable this flexibility, the exporter allows users to create custom tables that fit their data requirements without modifying the exporter code itself. Additionally, materialized views can be used to adapt the default schema to support custom attributes, providing tailored table structures that better serve specific query patterns.
