---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/the-state-of-sql-based-observability
topic: the-evolution-of-sql-based-observability
ch_version_introduced: '40.77'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

metrics storage and analytics. ## Looking forward \& closing remarks [\#](/blog/evolution-of-sql-based-observability-with-clickhouse#looking-forward--closing-remarks) For the remainder of 2024 and early 2025, our observability efforts will concentrate on three major initiatives: production\-ready JSON, inverted indices, and the time series table engine.

Moving JSON to production\-ready and making this the default in the OTel Collector schema remains our main priority. This requires significant development to support efficiently in the underlying go client. This client is also used by Grafana, so this work will allow us to also visualize this column type.

[Inverted indices have been supported in ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-search-with-inverted-indices) in experimental form for some time. While we don’t expect users to use this feature on all data, inverted indices are essential for fast text queries on more recent data. This avoids a linear scan, and [similar to skipping indices](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/skipping-indexes), it should allow us to minimize the number of [granules required to read](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes#the-primary-index-has-one-entry-per-granule) (especially for rarer terms). Similar to JSON, we feel this feature needs significant improvements to become production\-ready, but we expect to see improvements in the new year.

> Note that we have no intention of supporting relevancy statistics and becoming a search engine! These features are not required in observability use cases, with users typically sorting by time. Inverted indices will remain a secondary index designed purely to speed up LIKE and token matching queries for strings.

In conclusion, have the recent developments changed the criteria as to whether ClickHouse is an appropriate choice for your observability solution? Yes and No.

While users can still follow the decision\-making process we outlined at the start of this blog, they can do so with greater confidence. The recent developments address the last criteria: “You prefer to wait for the ecosystem to mature more and SQL\-based observability to get more turnkey.”

With the addition of JSON support and increasingly robustness of OTel and usability of Grafana, we feel the ClickHouse observability story has been leveled up from both ends of the pipeline. These features, while not changing the fundamental decisions, ensure ClickHouse is more accessible, simpler to adopt and more robust than ever for observability workloads.
