---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/hifis-migration-from-bigquery-to-clickhouse
topic: clickhouse-vs-bigquery-using-clickhouse-to-serve-real-time-queries-on-top-of-bigquery-data
ch_version_introduced: '22.712'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

reports. These capabilities are ideal for ad\-hoc querying in low(er) queries\-per\-second (QPS) scenarios associated with classic data warehousing, especially when query access patterns are unknown or highly variable. In contrast, ClickHouse is optimized for use cases that require:

- **Sub\-second analytical queries** for user\-facing applications, where the access patterns are known and predictable. This can sometimes be a subset of the data in Big Query or even the entire dataset for a set of focused analytical queries. Note that whilst never “slow”, BigQuery typically delivers performance in the order of seconds, making building dynamic real\-time applications more challenging.
- **Potentially unbounded queries per second** as the application usage grows. ClickHouse is designed to serve queries with high concurrency and without enforced limits on the number of parallel queries.
- **Support for high insert rates** while still achieving low\-latency concurrent queries on recent data, for which data warehouses like BigQuery have not traditionally been optimized.

These properties are commonly required in external or internal facing applications needing to surface near\-real time analytics.

Pricing models can also be a factor in making technology choices. BigQuery charges for the amount of data scanned, which works well for ad\-hoc analytical queries, but can be seen as costly for real\-time analytical workloads. Instead, ClickHouse is [open source](https://clickhouse.com/clickhouse) and can be deployed on your own infrastructure, or hosted in [ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.com/cloud) which charges only based on consumed compute and storage. Note that some of these pricing challenges can be addressed by [reserving BigQuery slots](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reservations-intro), but this requires high thresholds of usage not realistic for all users.

## Setup \& Dataset [\#](/blog/clickhouse-bigquery-migrating-data-for-realtime-queries#setup--dataset)

Examples in this blog post utilize [ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?ajs_aid=b44bb600-929d-4c35-9f15-21edd1872094), which has a free trial that allows the completion of the scenarios we cover. We utilize a publicly available cloud environment on [sql.clickhouse.com](https://crypto.clickhouse.com?query=U0hPVyBUYWJsZXMgZnJvbSBldGhlcmV1bQ&), which has a total of 720 GB of memory and 180 vCPUs. All instructions are also compatible with self\-managed ClickHouse deployments running the latest version (23\.1\).
