---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/hifis-migration-from-bigquery-to-clickhouse
topic: clickhouse-vs-bigquery-using-clickhouse-to-serve-real-time-queries-on-top-of-bigquery-data
ch_version_introduced: '22.712'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

Google, with updates typically only 4 minutes behind the live blockchain. To allow users to reproduce examples, we have made this data available in [sql.clickhouse.com](https://crypto.clickhouse.com?query=U0hPVyBUYWJsZXMgZnJvbSBldGhlcmV1bQ&) for querying as well as in the public bucket `gs://clickhouse_public_datasets/ethereum`. ## Assumptions [\#](/blog/clickhouse-bigquery-migrating-data-for-realtime-queries#assumptions)

When selecting which data to store in ClickHouse vs BigQuery, we typically see users identifying the most commonly utilized queries that would be used by a real\-time analytics application. For streaming analytical data, this usually constitutes a subset of the data based on a time dimension.

For the remainder of this blog, we make the following assumptions:

- Data is continuously generated and stored in BigQuery, with a requirement to continuously stream new rows to ClickHouse.
- Data is append\-only and immutable. There is no requirement to selectively update rows, though dropping older data is expected and described below.
- Either a time dimension or an incrementing numeric identifier exists on the data that allows new rows for copying to ClickHouse to be identified.

Ethereum Blockchain data inherently satisfies these properties. In our case, we utilize the block timestamp. Below we address both migrating the historical data from Big Query to ClickHouse, as well handling appending new data continuously.

## Differences between BigQuery and ClickHouse Data Types and Schemas [\#](/blog/clickhouse-bigquery-migrating-data-for-realtime-queries#differences-between-bigquery-and-clickhouse-data-types-and-schemas)

Users moving data between ClickHouse and BigQuery will immediately notice that ClickHouse offers more granular precision with respect to numerics. For example, BigQuery offers the numeric types [INT64, NUMERIC, BIGNUMERIC and FLOAT64](https://cloud.google.com/bigquery/docs/reference/standard-sql/data-types#numeric_types). Contrast these with ClickHouse, which offers multiple precisions for decimals, [floats](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/float), and [ints](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint). With these, ClickHouse users can optimize storage and memory overhead, resulting in faster queries and lower resource consumption. Below we map the equivalent ClickHouse type for each BigQuery type:
