---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-our-internal-data-warehouse-at-clickhouse-a-year-later
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

and analysts to build data pipelines, allowing teams to write and iterate on modular SQL code used to transform data. Introducing dbt to the stack helped because it centralized transformation logic related to batch reporting in one place.

For example, when we add new data sources, dbt allows us to use time functions to easily join data that is supplied at different times, triggering follow\-on processes when ready. For example, consider the scenario where data from different sources is inserted at different times, say 7 pm and 10 pm, even though the logical timestamp used to JOIN data is one hourly increment, like 7. This logic can be highly custom, and is subject to change based on business needs. Encoding this logic with 19 different data sources is a lot easier when there’s one tool like dbt to track dependencies which also automatically produces lineage graphs as documentation.

In addition, the metrics we defined became more complicated. Simple count()s and sum()s across a date range gave way to window functions and data differencing which filtered on conditions stored in external tables. dbt paired with ClickHouse’s SQL dialect was key to managing this growing complexity as SQL became the way we encoded this business logic. dbt became the foundation of a more scalable way to report batch\-processed business metrics in DWH.

## Incorporating more real\-time data [\#](/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse-part-2#incorporating-more-real-time-data)

The ability to define complex business metrics as part of batch reporting processes is table stakes for an enterprise data warehouse. ClickHouse, known for its performance over petabyte\-scale datasets, easily handles the data that we throw in. However, where our DWH really excels is in its ability to handle new and unique real\-time data formats that don’t conform to strict schemas or relations (support for which is constantly [improving](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/58392)). Often, these data sources also have much bigger data volumes.

For example, in our DWH, every day, \~4 billion rows are inserted into just one of the tables \- the entire table has close to a trillion rows. To give another example, we import events from Google Analytics which stores event parameters as nested arrays that represent website activity on clickhouse.com. Similarly, offloads from our NoSQL Control Plane database resemble a nested JSON structure with a flexible schema.
