---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-our-internal-data-warehouse-at-clickhouse-a-year-later
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

real\-time data while preserving the underlying records in the event that deeper investigation is needed. In one environment, ClickHouse Cloud \+ dbt lets our users combine batch\-processed reporting with real\-time data streams. ## Configuring additional access points [\#](/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse-part-2#configuring-additional-access-points)

In the first iteration of DWH, we configured [Apache Superset](https://superset.apache.org/) as the BI tool for users to access data. Superset provides a number of key features like dashboarding, a SQL client, alerting, and user management in one deployment which was attractive to the team maintaining DWH. Also, it’s open\-source software. However, it had its limitations. Namely, we found Superset’s SQL client to be buggy, which has a very real impact on user experience.

To address this issue, we opened access to DWH using ClickHouse Cloud’s native SQL console. The SQL console was far better for users writing ad\-hoc SQL queries, and for exploring the various database tables and views. We use the ClickHouse Cloud API to manage user access to sensitive data, and use Google Groups to assign roles to users. Several users of DWH shared how using the SQL console was a superior experience to Superset’s native SQL client.

For a more specialized use case beyond writing ad\-hoc queries, we configured a connection with [Growthbook](https://www.growthbook.io/) as a way to run A/B tests using data in our DWH. The connection between Growthbook and ClickHouse Cloud takes a matter of minutes to set up, and provides us with an out\-of\-the\-box tool for analyzing results of A/B tests (which are SELECT queries to the DWH). Growthbook queries the DWH ClickHouse Cloud service directly, which means that running experiments using very raw, log\-level data is surprisingly trivial.

Finally, we set up a data exporter job from ClickHouse Cloud to Salesforce so that our sales team can consume data from DWH directly in Salesforce, our CRM. This connection is a bit trickier to set up because our Salesforce deployment doesn’t support queries from a static IP address, a limitation that would have made the connection less secure. In the end, we ended up pushing data from DWH into an S3 bucket, and then letting Salesforce query this S3 bucket instead.

## Where we want to take DWH next [\#](/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse-part-2#where-we-want-to-take-dwh-next)
