---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-our-internal-data-warehouse-at-clickhouse-a-year-later
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

have made the connection less secure. In the end, we ended up pushing data from DWH into an S3 bucket, and then letting Salesforce query this S3 bucket instead. ## Where we want to take DWH next [\#](/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse-part-2#where-we-want-to-take-dwh-next)

Looking to the future, we’re excited to keep scaling DWH by configuring additional data sources and onboarding more users. To ensure DWH scales, we want to decompose workloads to independently scalable compute groups which we believe will lead to performance improvements and cost savings.

When DWH was first created, we had just one “hourly load DAG” query which was one ETL job scheduled in Airflow that was responsible for incorporating all new data into DWH. This architecture was chosen because we had a limited number of data sources with a simple data model comprising just two entities. However, we quickly realized that this approach was not scalable as we added additional data sources and data models: The insert job was taking too long to execute, and just one error would jeopardize insertion of all data because of dependencies among different data models. After introducing dbt, we refactored this one job into nine different processes and noticed improvements in service reliability. Most of these jobs still run every hour, meaning that our ClickHouse Cloud service has to be running 24x7 to support insertion of new data.

An upcoming ClickHouse Cloud feature that we’re excited for is [compute\-compute separation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/reference/compute-compute-separation). This feature lets us separate DWH’s compute resources into multiple services, each of which can scale up or scale down independently as needed. This means we can have a read\-only service for our BI tool, a 24x7 read\-write service for critical ETL jobs, and a second read\-write service for less critical ETL jobs where data only needs to be refreshed once a day. This second read\-write service can then be scaled down when inactive, yielding considerable cost savings. In this manner, we see potential to decentralize compute resources and make different compute groups work independently of one another.
