---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog
topic: scaling-our-observability-platform-beyond-100-petabytes-by-embracing-wide-events-and-replacing-otel
ch_version_introduced: '1728437333.011701'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 21
---

of architectural changes, new tools, and hard\-earned lessons that we felt were worth sharing \- not least that OpenTelemetry (OTel) isn’t always the panacea of Observability (though we still love it), and that sometimes custom pipelines are essential.

**In our case, this shift enabled us to handle a 20x increase in event volume using less than 10% of the CPU for our most critical data source \- a transformation with massive implications for cost and efficiency.**

Other parts of our stack have also changed, not least due to the [ClickHouse acquisition of HyperDX](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-acquires-hyperdx-the-future-of-open-source-observability). Not only did this give us a first\-party ClickHouse\-native UI, but it also led to the [creation of ClickStack](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickstack-a-high-performance-oss-observability-stack-on-clickhouse) \- an opinionated, end\-to\-end observability stack built around ClickHouse. With HyperDX, we’ve started transitioning away from our Grafana\-based custom UI, moving toward a more integrated experience for exploration, correlation, and root cause analysis.

As more teams adopt ClickHouse for observability and realize just how much they can store and query affordably, we hope these insights prove as useful as our first post. If you’re curious about this journey, when and where OTel is appropriate, and how we scaled a log pipeline to 100PB…read on.

### Download ClickStack
 [\#](/blog/scaling-observability-beyond-100pb-wide-events-replacing-otel#test)

No setup headaches \- run the world’s fastest and most scalable open source observability stack, in seconds.

[Try now](https://clickhouse.com/docs/use-cases/observability/clickstack/getting-started?loc=blog-o11y-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog)
## Beyond general purpose: evolving observability at scale [\#](/blog/scaling-observability-beyond-100pb-wide-events-replacing-otel#beyond-general-purpose-evolving-observability-at-scale)

Over the past year, our approach to observability has undergone a significant transformation. We've continued to leverage OpenTelemetry to gather general\-purpose logs, but as our systems have scaled, we began to reach its limits. While OTel remains a valuable part of our toolkit, it couldn't fully deliver the performance and precision we needed for our most demanding workloads. This prompted us to develop purpose\-built tools tailored to our critical systems and rethink where generic solutions truly fit. Along the way, we've broadened the range of data we collect and revamped how we present insights to engineers.

### A new frontier of scale [\#](/blog/scaling-observability-beyond-100pb-wide-events-replacing-otel#a-new-frontier-of-scale)

When we last wrote about LogHouse, we were proud to handle 19 PiB of uncompressed data across 37 trillion rows. Today, those numbers feel like a distant memory. LogHouse now stores over 100 petabytes of uncompressed data, representing nearly 500 trillion rows.
Here's a quick look at the breakdown:
