---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog
topic: scaling-our-observability-platform-beyond-100-petabytes-by-embracing-wide-events-and-replacing-otel
ch_version_introduced: '1728437333.011701'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 21
---

before it ever had a chance to reach LogHouse. We found ourselves at a crossroads: either dramatically scale up the resource footprint of our OTel agents (and gateways) or rethink the entire ingestion model. We chose the latter.

> Note: To put the cost in perspective \- handling 20 million rows per second through the OpenTelemetry pipeline without dropping events would require an estimated 8,000 CPU cores across agents and collectors. That’s an enormous footprint dedicated solely to log collection, making it clear that the general\-purpose approach was unsustainable at our scale.

### Building SysEx: A specialized system for ClickHouse\-to\-ClickHouse transfers [\#](/blog/scaling-observability-beyond-100pb-wide-events-replacing-otel#building-sysex-a-specialized-system-for-clickhouse-to-clickhouse-transfers)

Our solution was to develop the **System Tables Exporter**, or **SysEx**. This is a specialized tool designed to transfer data from one ClickHouse instance to another as efficiently as possible. We wanted to go directly from the system tables in a customer's pod to the tables in LogHouse, preserving native ClickHouse types and eliminating all intermediate conversions. This has the fantastic side benefit that any query our engineers use to troubleshoot a live instance can be trivially adapted to query historical data across our entire fleet in LogHouse, as the table schemas are identical, with the addition of some enrichment columns (such as the Pod Name, ClickHouse version, etc).

Firstly we should emphasize that SysEx performs a **literal byte\-for\-byte copy** of data from the source to the destination. This preserves full fidelity, eliminates unnecessary CPU overhead, and avoids the pitfalls of repeated marshalling.
