---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog
topic: scaling-our-observability-platform-beyond-100-petabytes-by-embracing-wide-events-and-replacing-otel
ch_version_introduced: '1728437333.011701'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 21
---

are staggering. Consider these stats from LogHouse: - **OTel Collectors:** Use over 800 CPU cores to ship 2 million logs per second. - **LogHouse Scrapers (SysEx):** Use just 70 CPU cores to ship 37 million logs per second.

This specialized approach has allowed us to handle a 20x increase in event volume with less than 10 percent of the CPU footprint for our most important data source. Most importantly, it means we no longer drop events at the edge. To achieve this same level of reliability with our previous OTel\-based pipeline, **we would have needed over 8,000 CPU cores**. SysEx delivers it with a fraction of the resources, maintaining full fidelity and consistent delivery.

## When OpenTelemetry is the right choice [\#](/blog/scaling-observability-beyond-100pb-wide-events-replacing-otel#when-opentelemetry-is-the-right-choice)

If you’ve read this far, you might be wondering: when is OpenTelemetry still the right choice, and is it still useful?
We firmly believe that it is. While our architecture has evolved to meet challenges at extreme scale, such as parsing and processing over 20 million log lines per second, OpenTelemetry remains a critical part of our stack. It offers a standardized, vendor\-neutral format and provides an excellent onboarding experience for new users \- and is hence the default choice for ClickStack. Unlike SysEx, which is tightly integrated with ClickHouse internals, OpenTelemetry decouples producers from consumers, which is a major architectural advantage, especially for users who want flexibility across observability platforms.
