---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog
topic: scaling-our-observability-platform-beyond-100-petabytes-by-embracing-wide-events-and-replacing-otel
ch_version_introduced: '1728437333.011701'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 21
---

the same issue. Getting data into ClickHouse was straightforward, but building a UI that fully unlocked its value required significant engineering effort. For smaller teams or companies without dedicated frontend resources, ClickHouse\-powered observability was often out of reach.

HyperDX changed that. It provided a first\-party, ClickHouse\-native UI that supports log and trace exploration, correlation, and analysis at scale. Its workflows are designed with ClickHouse in mind, optimizing queries and minimizing latency. When we evaluated HyperDX prior to the acquisition, it was already clear that it addressed many of the pain points we and others had experienced. The ability to query using Lucene syntax dramatically simplifies data exploration and is often sufficient. Importantly, it still allows us to query in SQL \- something which we still find essential for more complex event analysis \- see “SQL for more complex analysis”.

A key reason HyperDX was such a compelling fit was the schema\-agnostic [approach introduced in v2\.0](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickstack-a-high-performance-oss-observability-stack-on-clickhouse). It doesn't require log tables to conform to a single, rigid structure. This flexibility is critical for a system like LogHouse, which ingests data from numerous sources:

- It seamlessly handles the standardized, yet evolving, data format from our **OpenTelemetry** pipeline.
- More importantly, it works out\-of\-the\-box with the highly specialized, wide\-column tables produced by **SysEx** and our other custom exporters. It does this with no prior knowledge of the SysEx schemas, or complex *grok pattern* specializations. It simply inspects the schema behind\-the\-scenes and adapts to work with them.

This means our engineering teams can add new data sources with unique, optimal schemas to LogHouse without ever needing to worry about breaking or reconfiguring the user interface. By combining HyperDX's powerful UI and session replay capabilities with LogHouse's massive data repository, we have created a unified and adaptable observability experience for our engineers.
