---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/slack
topic: kafka-latency-and-you-minimizing-latency-with-kafka-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

provided by a default column (mentioned earlier using “now()”) while `generationTimestamp` is a column we set when generating the data \- you could just as easily use something like `kafkaField` (mentioned earlier that was created by a transform).

Note: The data in the example chart shows a slowly increasing latency time and just seeing this would be enough to indicate a possible issue \- the power of a visual!

## How do I deal with latency? [\#](/blog/measure-visaualize-minimize-kafka-latency-clickhouse#how-do-i-deal-with-latency)

We’re going to cover a few ways to address latency, but keep in mind that this list isn’t exhaustive \- you may find other methods work better. If you do, please let us know \- the more information, the better we can help others!

Latency can occur in multiple parts of the system. We address potential causes at each stage below.

### Latency between Kafka and Kafka Connect [\#](/blog/measure-visaualize-minimize-kafka-latency-clickhouse#latency-between-kafka-and-kafka-connect)

#### Fetch and Batch Size [\#](/blog/measure-visaualize-minimize-kafka-latency-clickhouse#fetch-and-batch-size)

Records are fetched by Kafka Connect independently of the connector, and you can tweak this by setting **consumer.fetch.min.bytes** and **consumer.fetch.max.bytes**. As you can imagine, there’s a balancing act here \- ideally, you’re fetching more records than the batch size so that you always have enough to fill a batch. You can even tweak how often fetching happens by setting **consumer.fetch.max.wait.ms** \- it might take longer, but the fetch is more likely to hit the maximum size (and so optimize how many connections need to be made) if you find you’re not generating messages all that often.

Similarly, on the other side, the batches the connector receives are controlled by polling (the default is 500\):

```
consumer.max.poll.records=[NUMBER OF RECORDS]
consumer.max.partition.fetch.bytes=[NUMBER OF RECORDS * RECORD SIZE IN BYTES]

```

Different Kafka Connect hosts are going to have different ways to handle adjusting \- see [Confluent’s documentation](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/connectors/bring-your-connector/custom-connector-manage.html#override-configuration-properties) for their preferred method, for example.

#### Number of Partitions [\#](/blog/measure-visaualize-minimize-kafka-latency-clickhouse#number-of-partitions)
