---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/slack
topic: kafka-latency-and-you-minimizing-latency-with-kafka-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

RECORDS] consumer.max.partition.fetch.bytes=[NUMBER OF RECORDS * RECORD SIZE IN BYTES] ``` Different Kafka Connect hosts are going to have different ways to handle adjusting \- see [Confluent’s documentation](https://docs.confluent.io/cloud/current/connectors/bring-your-connector/custom-connector-manage.html#override-configuration-properties) for their preferred method, for example. #### Number of Partitions [\#](/blog/measure-visaualize-minimize-kafka-latency-clickhouse#number-of-partitions)

The number of topic partitions can affect the volume of inserts and batch sizes (which can increase network chattiness, as you might imagine). One hundred messages spread out across one hundred partitions is going to have more of an impact than a single partition, especially based on the numbers of tasks/workers running. Since the above poll and fetch process is performed per task (see below), more partitions may increase the time to fill a batch (if following recommendations below of one task per partition) \- potentially increasing latency. We generally thus recommend leaning towards fewer partitions (within reason) rather than more, but there’s not a set rule for sizing this.

We generally recommend inserting data in fairly large batches of at least 1,000 rows at a time, and ideally between 10,000 to 100,000 rows (See our [best practices](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/bestpractices/bulk-inserts) for more information).

#### Number of Tasks [\#](/blog/measure-visaualize-minimize-kafka-latency-clickhouse#number-of-tasks)

In Kafka Connect, tasks are the workers that actually copy the data \- we’ve seen recommendations that you have at least as many tasks as partitions, to ensure each “channel” flows properly.

If you’d like to dig deeper into Tasks, check out the [Confluent doc on the topic](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/connect/index.html#tasks).

#### Too Many Parts [\#](/blog/measure-visaualize-minimize-kafka-latency-clickhouse#too-many-parts)

Something that we’ve run into are “Too Many Parts” errors \- ClickHouse is optimized for large volumes of data (properly batched) rather than frequent smaller inserts (the classic “chatty” vs “batchy” network debate). Inserts are handled on a per task basis \- each task is responsible for inserting that task’s data into ClickHouse \- so more partitions/tasks isn’t always better.

### Latency between Kafka Connect and ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/measure-visaualize-minimize-kafka-latency-clickhouse#latency-between-kafka-connect-and-clickhouse-cloud)

#### Instance Sleeping [\#](/blog/measure-visaualize-minimize-kafka-latency-clickhouse#instance-sleeping)

ClickHouse Cloud will put instances to sleep (to save you credits) when the service is not subject to queries. This means that when there are gaps in insert and query activity, the instance may be paused. If there is, in turn, an influx of new data, it will likely create a delay as the instance is spun back up.
