---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://altinity.com/webinarspage/deep-dive-on-clickhouse-sharding-and-replication
topic: suspiciously-many-broken-parts-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# Suspiciously many broken parts \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Setup \& maintenance](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/)
2. Suspiciously many broken parts
# Suspiciously many broken parts

Debugging a common error message## Symptom:

clickhouse fails to start with a message `DB::Exception: Suspiciously many broken parts to remove.`

## Cause:

That exception is just a safeguard check/circuit breaker, triggered when clickhouse detects a lot of broken parts during server startup.

Parts are considered broken if they have bad checksums or some files are missing or malformed. Usually, that means the data was corrupted on the disk.

Why data could be corrupted?

1. the most often reason is a hard restart of the system, leading to a loss of the data which was not fully flushed to disk from the system page cache. Please be aware that by default ClickHouse doesn’t do fsync, so data is considered inserted after it was passed to the Linux page cache. See fsync\-related settings in ClickHouse.
2. it can also be caused by disk failures, maybe there are bad blocks on hard disk, or logical problems, or some raid issue. Check system journals, use `fsck` / `mdadm` and other standard tools to diagnose the disk problem.
3. other reasons: manual intervention/bugs etc, for example, the data files or folders are removed by mistake or moved to another folder.

## Action:

1. If you are ok to accept the [data loss](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/recovery-after-complete-data-loss/)
: set up `force_restore_data` flag and clickhouse will move the parts to detached. Data loss is possible if the issue is a result of misconfiguration (i.e. someone accidentally has fixed xml configs with incorrect [shard/replica macros](https://altinity.com/webinarspage/deep-dive-on-clickhouse-sharding-and-replication)
, data will be moved to detached folder and can be recovered).

```
sudo -u clickhouse touch /var/lib/clickhouse/flags/force_restore_data

```
then restart clickhouse. the table will be attached, and the broken parts will be detached, which means the data from those parts will not be available for the selects. You can see the list of those parts in the `system.detached_parts` table and drop them if needed using `ALTER TABLE ... DROP DETACHED PART ...` commands.

If you are ok to tolerate bigger losses automatically you can change that safeguard configuration to be less sensitive by increasing `max_suspicious_broken_parts` setting:
