---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-is-data-lake-ready
topic: integrating-the-rust-delta-kernel-into-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '3.29'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

seem surprising at first, but are the result of deliberate design decisions. To understand the challenges we encountered when integrating [delta\-kernel\-rs](https://github.com/delta-io/delta-kernel-rs/), it's important to first look at these characteristics and how they shape the way code is integrated.

First and foremost, the resulting binary has no external dependencies, with the sole exception of the libc library, at least for now. The default Linux build depends only on a relatively old glibc version, 2\.4 for x86\_64, nearly 20 years old, or 2\.18, around 11 years old, for ARM. It does not rely on libstdc\+\+ or any other external libraries. This ensures the binary runs consistently across environments, with identical behavior regardless of what is installed on the system.

The second peculiarity follows directly from this. Since dynamic loading is not possible, all dependencies must be built into the binary. We achieve this by vendoring them as submodules within the repository under `contrib/`. This greatly simplifies development, removing concerns around system library versions and ensuring all required code is always available. This approach is increasingly common in newer ecosystems like Go and Rust. That said, it does come with trade\-offs, particularly from a packaging perspective, where it can lead to larger binaries and concerns around dependency freshness.

These constraints naturally lead to the next design choice. External dependencies are built using the same compiler options and flags as the core codebase, with only minimal exceptions where required. We also maintain our own simplified CMake configurations for each dependency, tailored specifically to our needs.

Treating external code with the same standards as internal code quickly proves its value. By running our sanitizers and fuzzers across all dependencies, we often uncover issues early in the integration process. Fixing these not only improves ClickHouse itself but also contributes back to the broader open source ecosystem.

### Rust inside ClickHouse [\#](/blog/integrating-rust-delta-kernel#rust-inside-clickhouse)

Rust [was introduced to ClickHouse](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/33435) as a way to add minor functionality, such as new functions, to the database engine. The initial demonstration introduced the [BLAKE3](https://github.com/BLAKE3-team/BLAKE3) crate to provide the `blake3` function, using some hand\-written C wrappers and [Corrosion](https://github.com/corrosion-rs/corrosion) to handle the `cmake` targets.

Although this original library was later removed (replaced by LLVM's C\+\+ implementation) other libraries were added and are still present:
