---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-is-data-lake-ready
topic: integrating-the-rust-delta-kernel-into-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '3.29'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

This was another issue we encountered, unrelated to the crate itself, and after the code had already been integrated and was running in CI. Following some build changes, we began seeing inexplicable linker errors about missing [ASAN symbols](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/76921#issuecomment-2688688637).

This was unexpected, as these builds did not have sanitizers enabled. There was no obvious reason for internal objects to depend on ASAN. After several rounds of trial and error, we traced the issue to sccache. However, attempts to reproduce the problem locally were unsuccessful, as changes in build flags resulted in different cache keys.

Upgrading sccache from 0\.7\.7 to 0\.10\.0 appeared to resolve the issue initially (along with several patches [\[1]](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/85686/commits/bac766dd68c913a848bf2d3cf06ba811ca0a76e3)[\[2]](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/85686/commits/29369fd875d80ea69860139d3c4542afeae097aa)), although the underlying cause remained unclear. A few weeks later, the problem resurfaced, and we have since disabled sccache. At present, we are not using any wrapper to cache Rust builds.

#### Current status [\#](/blog/integrating-rust-delta-kernel#current-status)

On one hand, things are working, which is nice. Keep in mind that, at least for me personally, I've spent easily 20 to 50 times more effort debugging and setting up Rust builds than reading Rust code, let alone writing it, so the most important part is in place.

On the other hand, several things are not working.

- Memory sanitizer builds of the crate are disabled. There are issues when linking [ring](https://github.com/briansmith/ring) built with MSAN. Fixing this would require understanding how a nested dependency of a nested dependency is built, and I'd rather focus on removing it than building it correctly.
- In general, when building Rust crates, we are not respecting all CMake options that ClickHouse uses. As a result, Cargo may introduce instruction sets into the libraries that we want to avoid. For example, we use NO\_ARMV81\_OR\_HIGHER to disable newer ARM instructions and support older standards. The issue is that [ring](https://github.com/briansmith/ring) assumes Neon SIMD instructions are always available.

All three issues would be resolved if we could pass our own S3 client to delta\-lake\-ffi and delegate requests externally. ClickHouse already has a complex networking stack with retries, logging, event tracking, and monitoring, so in an ideal setup, we would be able to completely opt out of network access within Rust. That would eliminate both the dependency and the associated build complexity.
