---
source: blog
url: https://www.json.org/json-en.html
topic: how-we-built-a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

column data files in the [previous](/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse#traditional-data-storage-in-clickhouse) example). For example, all integer values are stored in the `C.Int64 .bin` file, all String values are stored in `C.String .bin`, and so on. ### Discriminator column for switching between subtypes [\#](/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse#discriminator-column-for-switching-between-subtypes)

To know which type is used per row of the ClickHouse table, ClickHouse assigns a discriminator value to each data type and stores a corresponding additional (`UInt8`) column data file with these discriminators ( `C
.variant
_discr
.bin` in the figure above). Each discriminator value represents an index into a list of sorted used type names. Discriminator 255 is reserved for `NULL` values, which means that by design, a Variant can have a maximum of 255 different concrete types.

Note that we don’t need a separate [NULL mask file](/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse#traditional-data-storage-in-clickhouse) to differentiate between NULL and default values.

Further, note that there is a [special compact form](/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse#one-more-detail---compact-discriminator-serialization) of discriminator serialization (to optimize for typical JSON scenarios).

### Dense data storage [\#](/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse#dense-data-storage)

The separate type variant column data files are dense. We don’t store `NULL` values in these files. In scenarios with many unique but sparse JSON keys, we don't store default values for rows that don’t have a real value for a specific JSON path, as sketched in [this](/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse#challenge-4-dense-storage) diagram above (as a counter\-example). This solves our [fourth](/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse#challenge-4-dense-storage) challenge.

Because of this dense storage of type variants, we also need a mapping from a row in the discriminators column to the row in the corresponding type variant column data file. For this purpose, we use an additional `UInt64` offsets column (see `offsets` in the figure above) that only exists in memory but is not stored on disk (the in\-memory representation can be created on\-the\-fly from the discriminators column file).

As an example, to get the value in the ClickHouse table row 6 in the diagram above, ClickHouse inspects row 6 in the discriminators column to identify the type variant column data file that contains the requested value: `C.Int64
.bin`. Additionally, ClickHouse knows the concrete offset of the requested value within the `C.Int64
.bin` file, by inspecting row 6 of the `offsets` file: offset 2\. Therefore the requested value for ClickHouse table row 6 is 44\.

### Arbitrary nesting of Variant types [\#](/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse#arbitrary-nesting-of-variant-types)
