---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/array-functions.md)#
topic: array-functions-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '25.4'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 27
total_chunks_in_doc: 49
---

adding numbers, ClickHouse automatically sets the type of `x` for the data type of the array. - Can be `NULL`. The function adds a `NULL` element to an array, and the type of array elements converts to `Nullable`.

For more information about the types of data in ClickHouse, see [Data types](/docs/sql-reference/data-types).

**Returned value**

Returns an array identical to `arr` but with an additional value `x` at the end of the array [`Array(T)`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array)

**Examples**

**Usage example**

```
SELECT arrayPushBack(['a'], 'b') AS res;

```

```
['a','b']

```

## arrayPushFront[​](#arrayPushFront "Direct link to arrayPushFront")

Introduced in: v1\.1\.0

Adds one element to the beginning of the array.

**Syntax**

```
arrayPushFront(arr, x)

```

**Arguments**

- `arr` — The array for which to add value `x` to the end of. [`Array(T)`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array). \- `x` —
- Single value to add to the start of the array. [`Array(T)`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array).

Note- Only numbers can be added to an array with numbers, and only strings can be added to an array of strings.
- When adding numbers, ClickHouse automatically sets the type of `x` for the data type of the array.
- Can be `NULL`. The function adds a `NULL` element to an array, and the type of array elements converts to `Nullable`.

For more information about the types of data in ClickHouse, see [Data types](/docs/sql-reference/data-types).

**Returned value**

Returns an array identical to `arr` but with an additional value `x` at the beginning of the array [`Array(T)`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array)

**Examples**

**Usage example**

```
SELECT arrayPushFront(['b'], 'a') AS res;

```

```
['a','b']

```

## arrayROCAUC[​](#arrayROCAUC "Direct link to arrayROCAUC")

Introduced in: v20\.4\.0

Calculates the area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve.
A ROC curve is created by plotting True Positive Rate (TPR) on the y\-axis and False Positive Rate (FPR) on the x\-axis across all thresholds.
The resulting value ranges from zero to one, with a higher value indicating better model performance.

The ROC AUC (also known as simply AUC) is a concept in machine learning.
For more details, please see [here](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/glossary#pr-auc-area-under-the-pr-curve), [here](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course/classification/roc-and-auc#expandable-1) and [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Receiver_operating_characteristic#Area_under_the_curve).

**Syntax**

```
arrayROCAUC(scores, labels[, scale[, partial_offsets]])

```

**Aliases**: `arrayAUC`

**Arguments**
