---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/array-functions.md)#
topic: array-functions-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '25.4'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 28
total_chunks_in_doc: 49
---

value indicating better model performance. The ROC AUC (also known as simply AUC) is a concept in machine learning. For more details, please see [here](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/glossary#pr-auc-area-under-the-pr-curve), [here](https://developers.google.com/machine-learning/crash-course/classification/roc-and-auc#expandable-1) and [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Receiver_operating_characteristic#Area_under_the_curve). **Syntax** ``` arrayROCAUC(scores, labels[, scale[, partial_offsets]]) ``` **Aliases**: `arrayAUC` **Arguments**

- `scores` — Scores prediction model gives. [`Array((U)Int*)`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array) or [`Array(Float*)`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array)
- `labels` — Labels of samples, usually 1 for positive sample and 0 for negative sample. [`Array((U)Int*)`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array) or [`Enum`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/enum)
- `scale` — Optional. Decides whether to return the normalized area. If false, returns the area under the TP (true positives) x FP (false positives) curve instead. Default value: true. [`Bool`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/boolean)
- `partial_offsets` —
- An array of four non\-negative integers for calculating a partial area under the ROC curve (equivalent to a vertical band of the ROC space) instead of the whole AUC. This option is useful for distributed computation of the ROC AUC. The array must contain the following elements \[`higher_partitions_tp`, `higher_partitions_fp`, `total_positives`, `total_negatives`]. [Array](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array) of non\-negative [Integers](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint). Optional.
	- `higher_partitions_tp`: The number of positive labels in the higher\-scored partitions.
	- `higher_partitions_fp`: The number of negative labels in the higher\-scored partitions.
	- `total_positives`: The total number of positive samples in the entire dataset.
	- `total_negatives`: The total number of negative samples in the entire dataset.

NoteWhen `arr_partial_offsets` is used, the `arr_scores` and `arr_labels` should be only a partition of the entire dataset, containing an interval of scores.
The dataset should be divided into contiguous partitions, where each partition contains the subset of the data whose scores fall within a specific range.
For example:- One partition could contain all scores in the range \[0, 0\.5\).
- Another partition could contain scores in the range \[0\.5, 1\.0].

**Returned value**

Returns area under the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve. [`Float64`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/float)

**Examples**

**Usage example**

```
SELECT arrayROCAUC([0.1, 0.4, 0.35, 0.8], [0, 0, 1, 1]);

```

```
0.75

```

## arrayRandomSample[​](#arrayRandomSample "Direct link to arrayRandomSample")

Introduced in: v23\.10\.0

Returns a subset with `samples`\-many random elements of an input array. If `samples` exceeds the size of the input array, the sample size is limited to the size of the array, i.e. all array elements are returned but their order is not guaranteed. The function can handle both flat arrays and nested arrays.

**Syntax**

```
arrayRandomSample(arr, samples)

```

**Arguments**
