---
source: blog
url: https://www.nngroup.com/articles/response-times-3-important-limits/
topic: accelerating-clickhouse-queries-on-json-data-for-faster-bluesky-insights
ch_version_introduced: '4.14'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 23
---

ingest new [events](https://github.com/bluesky-social/jetstream?tab=readme-ov-file#example-events) (e.g. post, like, repost). ### How we store Bluesky JSON data in ClickHouse [\#](/blog/accelerating-clickhouse-json-queries-for-fast-bluesky-dashboards#how-we-store-bluesky-json-data-in-clickhouse) Below is the schema of the ClickHouse table storing the full, constantly growing Bluesky dataset, accessible through our [ClickHouse SQL playground](/blog/accelerating-clickhouse-json-queries-for-fast-bluesky-dashboards#test-all-queries-live):

```

```
1CREATE TABLE bluesky.bluesky
2(
3  kind LowCardinality(String),
4  data JSON,
5  bluesky_ts DateTime64(6)
6)
7ENGINE = MergeTree
8ORDER BY (kind, bluesky_ts);
```


```

The data column uses our [revamped](https://clickhouse.com/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse) JSON type to store original Bluesky JSON documents.

> To speed up specific queries, we previously extracted and stored the event kind and event time as top\-level columns and sorting keys. However, this is no longer necessary, as our JSON type now [supports](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-release-24-12#json-subcolumns-as-table-primary-key) using JSON paths directly as sorting and primary key columns.

### How big is the dataset? [\#](/blog/accelerating-clickhouse-json-queries-for-fast-bluesky-dashboards#how-big-is-the-dataset)

We began ingesting data in late December last year. As of March 2025, the table holds 4\+ billion Bluesky event JSON documents, with a total uncompressed size exceeding 1\.6 TiB:

```

```
1SELECT
2    formatReadableQuantity(sum(rows)) AS docs,
3    formatReadableSize(sum(data_uncompressed_bytes)) AS data_size
4FROM system.parts
5WHERE active AND (database = 'bluesky') AND (table = 'bluesky');
```

```

Static result for the query above from March 2025:

```

```
в”Ңв”Җdocsв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”¬в”Җdata_sizeв”Җв”җ
в”Ӯ 4.14 billion в”Ӯ 1.61 TiB  в”Ӯ
в””в”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҳ
```

```

### How fast is it growing? [\#](/blog/accelerating-clickhouse-json-queries-for-fast-bluesky-dashboards#how-fast-is-it-growing)

Monthly, the table grows currently by \~1\.5 billion documents:

```

```
1SELECT
2    toStartOfMonth(bluesky_ts) AS month,
3    count() AS docs
4FROM bluesky.bluesky
5GROUP BY month
6ORDER BY month DESC
7LIMIT 10
8SETTINGS enable_parallel_replicas=1;
```

```

We began ingesting Bluesky event data in late December last year, so that month has a lower data volume compared to subsequent months. Additionally, February was a short month this year with only 28 days.

Daily, the table currently grows by \~50 million Bluesky events:

```

```
1SELECT
2    toStartOfDay(bluesky_ts) AS day,
3    count() AS docs
4FROM bluesky.bluesky
5WHERE day < toStartOfDay(now())
6GROUP BY day
7ORDER BY day DESC
8LIMIT 10
9SETTINGS enable_parallel_replicas=1;
```

```

> This rapid growth means that without the right optimizations, queries will inevitably slow down.

So how do we sustain real\-time performance, no matter the dataset size and growth rate? Read on...

## Test all queries live! [\#](/blog/accelerating-clickhouse-json-queries-for-fast-bluesky-dashboards#test-all-queries-live)

Or let this blog run them for you.
