---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/20202
topic: clickhouse-22-2-released
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

has been merged in the main codebase by **Nikolai Kochetov** in May 2021 under experimental flag, and after 21 follow\-up pull requests we ensured that it passed the full set of test suites and enabled it by default.

Read an example of how to optimize queries with projections [in our docs](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/uk-price-paid/#speedup-with-projections).

## **Control of file creation and rewriting on data export** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-2-released#control-of-file-creation-and-rewriting-on-data-export-)

When you export your data with an `INSERT INTO TABLE FUNCTION` statement into `file`, `s3` or `hdfs` and the target file already exists, you can now control how to deal with it: you can append new data into the file if it is possible, rewrite it with new data, or create another file with a similar name like ‘data.1\.parquet.gz’.

Some storage systems like `s3` and some formats like `Parquet` don’t support data appending. In previous ClickHouse versions, if you insert multiple times into a file with Parquet data format, you will end up with a file that is not recognized by other systems. Now you can choose between throwing exceptions on subsequent inserts or creating more files.

So, new settings were introduced:

```
s3_truncate_on_insert
s3_create_new_file_on_insert
hdfs_truncate_on_insert
hdfs_create_new_file_on_insert
engine_file_allow_create_multiple_files

```

This feature [was developed](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/33302) by **Pavel Kruglov**.

## **Custom deduplication token** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-2-released#custom-deduplication-token-)

`ReplicatedMergeTree` and `MergeTree` types of tables implement block\-level deduplication. When a block of data is inserted, its cryptographic hash is calculated and if the same block was already inserted before, then the duplicate is skipped and the insert query succeeds. This makes it possible to implement exactly\-once semantics for inserts.

In ClickHouse version 22\.2 you can provide your own deduplication token instead of an automatically calculated hash. This makes sense if you already have batch identifiers from some other system and you want to reuse them. It also makes sense when blocks can be identical but they should actually be inserted multiple times. Or the opposite – when blocks contain some random data and you want to deduplicate only by significant columns.

This is implemented by adding the setting `insert_deduplication_token`. The feature was contributed by **Igor Nikonov**.

## **DEFAULT keyword for INSERT** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-2-released#default-keyword-for-insert-)

A small addition for SQL compatibility – now we allow using the `DEFAULT` keyword instead of a value in `INSERT INTO ... VALUES` statement. It looks like this:

```
INSERT INTO test VALUES (1, 'Hello', DEFAULT)

```
