---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/20202
topic: clickhouse-22-2-released
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

[\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-2-released#default-keyword-for-insert-) A small addition for SQL compatibility – now we allow using the `DEFAULT` keyword instead of a value in `INSERT INTO ... VALUES` statement. It looks like this: ``` INSERT INTO test VALUES (1, 'Hello', DEFAULT) ```

Thanks to **Andrii Buriachevskyi** for this feature.

## **EPHEMERAL columns** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-2-released#ephemeral-columns-)

A column in a table can have a `DEFAULT` expression like `c INT DEFAULT a + b`. In ClickHouse you can also use `MATERIALIZED` instead of `DEFAULT` if you want the column to be always calculated with the provided expression instead of allowing a user to insert data. And you can use `ALIAS` if you don’t want the column to be stored at all but instead to be calculated on the fly if referenced.

Since version 22\.2 a new type of column is added: `EPHEMERAL` column. The user can insert data into this column but the column is not stored in a table, it’s ephemeral. The purpose of this column is to provide data to calculate other columns that can reference it with `DEFAULT` or `MATERIALIZED` expressions.

This feature was made by **Yakov Olkhovskiy**.

## **Improvements for multi\-disk configuration** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-2-released#improvements-for-multi-disk-configuration-)

You can configure multiple disks to store ClickHouse data instead of managing RAID and ClickHouse will automatically manage the data placement.

Since version 22\.2 ClickHouse can automatically repair broken disks without server restart by downloading the missing parts from replicas and placing them on the healthy disks.

This feature was implemented by **Amos Bird** and is already being used for more than 1\.5 years in production at Kuaishou.

Another improvement is the option to specify TTL MOVE TO DISK/VOLUME **IF EXISTS**. It allows replicas with non\-uniform disk configuration and to have one replica to move old data to cold storage while another replica has all the data on hot storage. Data will be moved only on replicas that have the specified disk or volume, hence *if exists*. This was developed by **Anton Popov**.

## **Flexible memory limits** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-22-2-released#flexible-memory-limits-)

We split per\-query and per\-user memory limits into a pair of hard and soft limits. The settings `max_memory_usage` and `max_memory_usage_for_user` act as hard limits. When memory consumption is approaching the hard limit, an exception will be thrown. Two other settings: `max_guaranteed_memory_usage` and `max_guaranteed_memory_usage_for_user` act as soft limits.
