---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/handling-updates-and-deletes-in-clickhouse
topic: how-to-update-data-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '191.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

can get partitions list and some stats about current partitions: ``` SELECT partition, count() as number_of_parts, formatReadableSize(sum(bytes)) as sum_size FROM system.parts WHERE active AND database = 'merge' AND table = 'hits' GROUP BY partition ORDER BY partition; ```

```
в”Ңв”Җpartitionв”Җв”¬в”Җnumber_of_partsв”Җв”¬в”Җsum_sizeв”Җв”Җв”Җв”җ
в”Ӯ 201306    в”Ӯ               1 в”Ӯ 191.34 GiB в”Ӯ
в”Ӯ 201307    в”Ӯ               4 в”Ӯ 537.86 GiB в”Ӯ
в”Ӯ 201308    в”Ӯ               6 в”Ӯ 608.77 GiB в”Ӯ
в”Ӯ 201309    в”Ӯ               5 в”Ӯ 658.68 GiB в”Ӯ    
в”Ӯ 201310    в”Ӯ               5 в”Ӯ 768.74 GiB в”Ӯ
в”Ӯ 201311    в”Ӯ               5 в”Ӯ 654.61 GiB в”Ӯ
в””в”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҳ

```

There are 6 partitions with a few parts in each of them. Each partition is around 600 Gb of data. Partition is strictly one piece of data for partition key, here we can see that it is months. Part is one piece of data inside partition. Basically it's one node of LSMT structure, so there are not so many of them, especially for old data. If there are too many of them, they merge and form bigger ones.

## Partition Operations [\#](/blog/how-to-update-data-in-click-house#partition-operations)

There is a nice set of operations to work with partitions:

- `DETACH PARTITION` \- Move a partition to the 'detached' directory and forget it.
- `DROP PARTITION` \- Delete a partition.
- `ATTACH PART|PARTITION` \-\- Add a new part or partition from the 'detached' directory to the table.
- `FREEZE PARTITION` \- Create a backup of a partition.
- `FETCH PARTITION` \- Download a partition from another server.

We can do any data management operations on partitions level: move, copy and delete. Also, special DETACH and ATTACH operations are created to simplify data manipulation. DETACH detaches partition from table, moving all data to detached directory. Data is still there and you can copy it anywhere but detached data is not visible on request level. ATTACH is the opposite: attaches data from detached directory so it become visible.

This attach\-detach commands works almost in no time so you can make your updates almost transparently to database clients.

Here is the plan how to update data using partitions:

- Create modified partition with updated data on another table
- Copy data for this partition to detached directory
- `DROP PARTITION` in main table
- `ATTACH PARTITION` in main table
