---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/handling-updates-and-deletes-in-clickhouse
topic: how-to-update-data-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '191.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

plan how to update data using partitions: - Create modified partition with updated data on another table - Copy data for this partition to detached directory - `DROP PARTITION` in main table - `ATTACH PARTITION` in main table

Partition swap especially useful for huge data updates with low frequency. But they're not so handy when you need to update a lot of data in real time.

## Update Data on the Fly [\#](/blog/how-to-update-data-in-click-house#update-data-on-the-fly)

In Yandex.Metrica we have user sessions table. Each row is one session on a website: some pages checked, some time spent, some banners clicked. This data is updated every second: user on a website view more pages, click more buttons, and do other things. Site owner can see that actions in Yandex.Metrica interface in real time.

So how do we do that?

We update data not by updating that data, but adding more data about what have changed. This is usually called CRDT approach, and there is an article on Wikipedia about that.

It was created to solve conflict problem in transactions but this concept also allows updating data. We use our own data model with this approach. We call it Incremental Log.

## Incremental Log [\#](/blog/how-to-update-data-in-click-house#incremental-log)

Let's look at an example.

Here we have one session information with user identifier UserID, number of page viewed PageViews, time spent on site in seconds Duration. There is also Sign field, we describe it later.

```
в”Ңв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҖUserIDв”Җв”¬в”ҖPageViewsв”Җв”¬в”ҖDurationв”Җв”¬в”ҖSignв”Җв”җ
в”Ӯ 4324182021466249494 в”Ӯ         5 в”Ӯ      146 в”Ӯ    1 в”Ӯ
в””в”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҳ

```

And let's say we calculate some metrics over this data.

- `count()`\- number of sessions
- `sum(PageViews)`\- total number of pages all users checked
- `avg(Duration)` \- average session duration, how long user usually spent on the website

Let's say now we have update on that: user checked one more page, so we should change PageViews from 5 to 6 and Duration from 146 to 185\.

We insert two more rows:

```
в”Ңв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҖUserIDв”Җв”¬в”ҖPageViewsв”Җв”¬в”ҖDurationв”Җв”¬в”ҖSignв”Җв”җ
в”Ӯ 4324182021466249494 в”Ӯ         5 в”Ӯ      146 в”Ӯ   -1 в”Ӯ
в”Ӯ 4324182021466249494 в”Ӯ         6 в”Ӯ      185 в”Ӯ    1 в”Ӯ
в””в”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҳ

```

First one is delete row. It's exactly the same row what we already have there but with Sign set to \-1\. Second one is updated row with all data set to new values.

After that we have three rows of data:
