---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/handling-updates-and-deletes-in-clickhouse
topic: how-to-update-data-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '191.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

delete row. It's exactly the same row what we already have there but with Sign set to \-1\. Second one is updated row with all data set to new values. After that we have three rows of data:

```
┌──────────────UserID─┬─PageViews─┬─Duration─┬─Sign─┐
│ 4324182021466249494 │         5 │      146 │    1 │
│ 4324182021466249494 │         5 │      146 │   -1 │
│ 4324182021466249494 │         6 │      185 │    1 │
└─────────────────────┴───────────┴──────────┴──────┘

```

The most important part is modified metrics calculation. We should update our queries like this:

```
 -- number of sessions
count() -> sum(Sign)
 -- total number of pages all users checked
sum(PageViews) -> sum(Sign * PageViews)
 -- average session duration, how long user usually spent on the website
avg(Duration) -> sum(Sign * Duration) / sum(Sign)

```

You can see that it works as expected over this data. Deleted row 'hide' old row, same values come with \+ and \- signs inside aggregation and annihilate each other.

Moreover, it works totally fine with changing keys for grouping. If we want to group data by PageViews, all data for PageView \= 5 will be 'hidden' for this rows.

There are some limitations with this approach:

- It works only for metrics which can be presented through this Sign operations. It covers most cases, but it's not possible to calculate min or max values. There is an impact to uniq calculations also. But it's fine at least for Yandex.Metrica cases, and there are a lot of different analytical calculations;
- You need to remember somehow old value in external system doing updates, so you can insert this 'delete' rows;
- Some other effects; there is a [great answer](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/clickhouse/VixyOUD-K68/Km8EpkCyAQAJ) on Google Groups.

## CollapsingMergeTree [\#](/blog/how-to-update-data-in-click-house#collapsingmergetree)

ClickHouse has support of Incremental Log model in Collapsing engines family.

If you use Collapsing family, 'delete' row and old 'deleted' rows will collapse during merge process. Merge is a background process of merging data into larger chunks. Here is a great article about merges and LSMT structures.

For most cases 'delete' and 'deleted' rows will be removed in terms of days. What's important here is that you will not have any significant overhead on data size. Using Sign field on selects still required.
