---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Site_reliability_engineering
topic: can-llms-replace-on-call-sres-today
ch_version_introduced: '34.118'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 51
---

204 ms to 251 ms during the 10:00–11:00 interval, possibly coinciding with the upgrade/deployment window. ``` Prompt 9: ``` Looking at the data it looks like the request latency for get_product_list went up though. ``` LLM response 9:

```
Summary:

There is strong evidence from tracing data that the cache logic upgrade in get_product_list introduced increased latency, likely hurting overall recommendation service responsiveness.
Rolling back or tuning the new cache logic should be prioritized.

```

##### Gemini 2\.5 Pro [\#](/blog/llm-observability-challenge#gemini-25-pro-1)

Gemini initially explored the available database tables, acknowledging that traces, logs and metrics were available. It explained that it would begin with traces, but performed its entire investigation without ever considering logs or metrics. Using traces, it became locked on to the wrong problem.

After prompting it to also consider logs, Gemini then started to head in the right direction, suggesting that there was a timeout in the recommendation service, but did not discover why. After prompting it to investigate why the service timed out, it once again reverted back to only using traces, from which it decided that the issue was DNS. There are DNS errors present in the data set, but these are unrelated to the service in question. We then prompted it yet again to use the logs, but it got no further.

Next, we prompted it to consider the metrics table, which had some success; it discovered that the pods were reaching 100% CPU usage and suggested this was the cause \- but did not dig any deeper. Prompting it to look into why it reached 100%, Gemini looped around and found nothing.

> However, it then began to formulate an imaginary cause (for which it had no evidence), and began trying to prove its case.

Gemini was convinced that the cause must be a “poinsoned” product ID, and it began hunting for anything it could use to back this up. It was unsuccessful, but at least it admitted it.

We then asked it to take a look at resource usage around the time of the CPU spike, to see if there were other resources in contention. Somehow, this caused Gemini to discard the 100% CPU usage as a problem, and revert to telling us that DNS was, indeed, the problem (it isn’t).

Expand below to see the full interaction.
