---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Site_reliability_engineering
topic: can-llms-replace-on-call-sres-today
ch_version_introduced: '34.118'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 48
total_chunks_in_doc: 51
---

fine\-tuning. We recognize that these strategies could significantly improve model performance. ### Fast database is crucial [\#](/blog/llm-observability-challenge#fast-database-is-crucial) Investigating each issue required between 6 and 27 database queries. While our datasets were small, real\-world telemetry workloads are far larger.

Giving LLMs direct access to databases in observability workflows will significantly increase query load. As these systems scale, the database must be able to handle the added load without compromising latency. Fast, scalable database performance will be essential for making these kinds of LLM integrations practical.

### Unpredictable token usage (cost) [\#](/blog/llm-observability-challenge#unpredictable-token-usage-cost)

Token usage varied widely across models and scenarios, from a few thousand tokens to several million, depending on the model, the number of prompts, and how many times the system used external tools (MCP calls).

What drives this token consumption isn't always obvious. It's hard to estimate or predict how much a model will use in a given situation, and that makes it difficult to control or forecast costs.

This unpredictability makes LLMs risky to include in automated observability workflows, especially when cost is a concern.

## Shifting focus: From RCA detection to documentation [\#](/blog/llm-observability-challenge#shifting-focus-from-rca-detection-to-documentation)

Since LLMs didn't prove suitable as fully autonomous SRE agents, we explored whether they could still add value in a supporting role, specifically, by handling simpler but time\-consuming tasks.

To test this, we ran an experiment where the model was tasked with writing the RCA (Root Cause Analysis) report based on the findings from our manual investigation.

### Experiment walkthrough [\#](/blog/llm-observability-challenge#experiment-walkthrough-1)

Let's walk through one example, we'll use the demo anomaly dataset and Claude Sonnet 4\. We gave the following prompt to the LLM.

```
You’re an observability agent, and will help me writing up a RCA report for an issue we investigated recently on our application.

You have access to the raw OTel data that you can query using ClickHouse.

Users have been reporting issues when checking out their order. 
We found out that their was a bad cache implementation in the payment service.

Please get the data you need from the ClickHouse to write the RCA report.

```

The model went on and query the database to get all the logs, traces and metrics to understand the error cause and impact on the system. Then produce a comprehensive report.
