---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/23504>
topic: ddlworker-and-ddl-queue-problems-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '22.3'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

\= 1 \- How many ON CLUSTER queries can be run simultaneously. ## Too intensive stream of ON CLUSTER command Generally, it’s a bad design, but you can increase pool\_size setting ## Stuck DDL tasks in the distributed\_ddl\_queue

Sometimes [DDL tasks](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-ddlworker/)
(the ones that use ON CLUSTER) can get stuck in the `distributed_ddl_queue` because the replicas can overload if multiple DDLs (thousands of CREATE/DROP/ALTER) are executed at the same time. This is very normal in heavy ETL jobs.This can be detected by checking the `distributed_ddl_queue` table and see if there are tasks that are not moving or are stuck for a long time.

If these DDLs are completed in some replicas but failed in others, the simplest way to solve this is to execute the failed command in the missed replicas without ON CLUSTER. If most of the DDLs failed, then check the number of unfinished records in `distributed_ddl_queue` on the other nodes, because most probably it will be as high as thousands.

First, backup the `distributed_ddl_queue` into a table so you will have a snapshot of the table with the states of the tasks. You can do this with the following command:

```
CREATE TABLE default.system_distributed_ddl_queue AS SELECT * FROM system.distributed_ddl_queue;

```
After this, we need to check from the backup table which tasks are not finished and execute them manually in the missed replicas, and review the pipeline which do `ON CLUSTER` command and does not abuse them. There is a new `CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE` command that can be used to avoid the `ON CLUSTER` command in some cases, where you need an intermediate table to do some operations and after that you can `INSERT INTO` the final table or do `ALTER TABLE final ATTACH PARTITION FROM TABLE temp` and this temp table will be dropped automatically after the session is closed.

# 1 \- There are N unfinished hosts (0 of them are currently active).

There are N unfinished hosts (0 of them are currently active).Sometimes your Distributed DDL queries are being stuck, and not executing on all or subset of nodes, there are a lot of possible reasons for that kind of behavior, so it would take some time and effort to investigate.

## Possible reasons

### ClickHouse® node can’t recognize itself
