---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse
topic: training-machine-learning-models-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '23.3'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

inference can automatically detect the required types from these results and produce an appropriate table schema to store them. These resulting tables and views can then form the base of an offline store, serving data to model training.

Features are effectively extracted and expressed as SQL queries returning tabular data.

In summary, by using ClickHouse as both the transformation engine and offline store, users benefit from data locality and the ability of ClickHouse to parallelize and execute computationally expensive tasks across a cluster. This allows the offline store to scale to PBs, leaving the feature store to act as a lightweight coordination layer and API through which data is accessed and shared.

> These diagrams highlight additional key components of a feature store, notably the **online store**. Once a model is trained, it's deployed for real\-time predictions, requiring both immediate data, like a user's ID, and precomputed features, such as historical purchases, which are too costly to generate on\-the\-fly. These features, stored in the online store for quick access, are crucial for latency\-sensitive tasks like fraud detection. They are updated from the offline store to ensure they reflect the latest data. For more information, see our [earlier blog post](https://clickhouse.com/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse). While ClickHouse can be used as an online store, in this post we focus on the training examples and thus on the roles of transformation engine and offline store.

## Featureform [\#](/blog/training-machine-learning-models-with-clickhouse-and-featureform#featureform)

Our previous post explored different types of feature stores: [Physical](https://clickhouse.com/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse#physical-store), [Literal](https://clickhouse.com/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse#literal-store), and [Virtual](https://clickhouse.com/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse#literal-store). The Virtual store is best suited to ClickHouse, providing it with the opportunity to be used as both the offline store and transformation engine. In this architecture, the feature store is not responsible for managing transformations and the persistence and versioning of features but acts as an orchestrator only.

To realize our vision of a virtual feature store, super\-charged by ClickHouse, we identified Featureform as an ideal solution with which to integrate. As well as being open\-source, allowing us to easily contribute, Featureform also offers mature (by design) integration points for offline stores, online stores, and vector databases.

## Getting started with Featureform and ClickHouse [\#](/blog/training-machine-learning-models-with-clickhouse-and-featureform#getting-started-with-featureform-and-clickhouse)

First we install featureform with a simple pip installation:

```
pip install featureform
```
