---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse
topic: training-machine-learning-models-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '23.3'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

to specify an entity identifier (the `id` column) and use our previously created transformation `scaled_credit_cards` as the source. We exclude the `Class` from our features, as you might expect, given it's our target Label, and specify this accordingly.

With an entity defined, we can register a training set. The terminology here can be a little confusing as this will contain both our training and testing set. We’ll skip using a validation set for now since we aren’t doing any hyperparameter tuning or trying to identify an optimal algorithm.

```
fraud_training_set = ff.register_training_set(
    "fraud_training_set",
    label=Transaction.fraud,
    features=Transaction.transaction_features,
)
client.apply()

```

As always, our resources are lazily evaluated, so we explicitly call `apply`. This causes our training set to be created, again as a versioned table in ClickHouse that is only exposed through the Featureform API.

> Under the hood, each feature is represented by its own table. This allows new entities to be composed of features. This might not be necessary in our simple example, but it unlocks collaboration and reusability, as we’ll discuss later.

With our "training set" ready, we now need to split this into a training and validation set. For Featureform, this is a simple call, requiring us to specify the ratio of the split. For this, we use a classic 80/20 split.

```
# fetch the training set through the FF client
ds = client.training_set(fraud_training_set)
# split our training set ino a train and test set
train, test = ds.train_test_split(test_size=0.2, train_size=0.8, shuffle=True, random_state=3, batch_size=1000)

```

The `shuffle` ensures ClickHouse delivers the data in random order (useful given our approach to training below). We also specify a `random_state` as a seed to this randomization, such that if we invoke the notebook multiple times, the data is delivered in the same random order.

At this point, we could simply load `train` into a data frame in memory and use this to train a model. To show how datasets larger than local memory can be handled, we demonstrate an iterative approach to consuming the data.

This requires us to diverge from the original notebook and use an incremental approach to training \- specifically, we use a [Stochastic Gradient Descent (SGD) algorithm with a log\_loss function](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.linear_model.SGDClassifier.html) to train a Logistic regression model.

```
clf = SGDClassifier(loss='log_loss')
for features, label in train:
    clf.partial_fit(features, label, classes=[True,False])

```
