---
source: blog
url: https://crypto.clickhouse.com
topic: announcing-cryptohouse-free-blockchain-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse-and-goldsky
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

entities into a structured, row\-oriented format, and (2\) finding a database capable of handling the high throughput and potentially petabytes of data while serving the analytical queries users need. ## ClickHouse is the standard for blockchain analytics [\#](/blog/announcing-cryptohouse-free-blockchain-analytics#clickhouse-is-the-standard-for-blockchain-analytics)

As an open\-source OLAP database, ClickHouse is ideal for storing blockchain data due to its column\-oriented design and highly parallel execution engine. This allows queries to run over terabytes of data, delivering fast analytics across the full dataset. As a result, we have seen ClickHouse increasingly used for blockchain analytics, with companies such as Goldsky and Nansen using ClickHouse at the core of their offerings.

## Building a public service [\#](/blog/announcing-cryptohouse-free-blockchain-analytics#building-a-public-service)

Anyone who follows ClickHouse and is aware of our public demos will know we love to take on big datasets and build services around them. Earlier this year, we released [ClickPy](https://clickpy.clickhouse.com/), which provides free analytics on Python package downloads. More recently, [adsb.exposed](https://adsb.exposed/) wowed the community with some amazing visuals on flight data.

We’ve long known that blockchains offered the potential to satisfy our hunger for large, complex datasets. Of the popular blockchains, we knew the Solana network offers both size and complexity. While existing solutions exist for a public blockchain analytics service, users typically have to schedule queries and wait for them to execute asynchronously \- persisting the results for later retrieval. As the maintainers of ClickHouse, we knew we could serve the problem better, delivering real\-time analytics on the blockchains at a fraction of the cost and democratizing access to the data by allowing users to write queries and retrieve responses in real time.

While we were comfortable with the ClickHouse side of the effort, we admittedly aren’t crypto experts. Efforts to convert the Solana blockchain into a structured row orientated format looked involved with some prerequisite for domain expertise. The "challenge" therefore remained on pause until some fortuitous meetings earlier this year.

## Enter Goldsky [\#](/blog/announcing-cryptohouse-free-blockchain-analytics#enter-goldsky)

[Goldsky](https://goldsky.com/) is a product which specializes in cryptocurrency data infrastructure, providing developers with tools to build great real\-time applications using data from Solana and other blockchain networks. Their platform supports developers in building reliable, data\-driven Web3 applications by offering services like live data streaming of blockchain events in a structured format, with delivery straight into databases.
