---
source: blog
url: https://crypto.clickhouse.com
topic: announcing-cryptohouse-free-blockchain-analytics-powered-by-clickhouse-and-goldsky
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

applications using data from Solana and other blockchain networks. Their platform supports developers in building reliable, data\-driven Web3 applications by offering services like live data streaming of blockchain events in a structured format, with delivery straight into databases.

While Goldsky have been users of ClickHouse for some time for their own internal use cases, they are frequently requested to send blockchain data to their customers' own ClickHouse clusters who are looking to perform analytics. While interviewing Jeff Ling, the CTO of Goldsky, for [a user story](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-redpanda-architecture-with-goldsky) late last year, we shared our idea of building what would become CryptoHouse. To our surprise, Jeff was eager to participate and solve the data engineering component of our problem!

## Data engineering challenges [\#](/blog/announcing-cryptohouse-free-blockchain-analytics#data-engineering-challenges)

Solana produces 3000\-4000 transactions per second, with data that needs to be directly extracted from the nodes. Initially, Goldsky operationalized open\-source software to provide Solana support, which equates to scraping the built\-in blockchain node APIs. This approach led to an architecture where new blocks would be detected and put into a queue, with multiple workers in charge of fetching all the required transactions before putting these into the [Goldsky Mirror data streaming platform](https://goldsky.com/products/mirror) with minimal latency.

In practice, each transaction was also extracted into additional datasets, such as token transfers and account changes. The ingestion framework was adjusted to account for all the downstream transformations needed.

With the data now ingesting live into the platform, a mirror pipeline configuration was created for all the tables we wanted to support. Some transformations were needed to match the data with the table, which was optimized for efficient storage and aimed at the most common queries that users would want to run.

```
# Example pipeline for blocks - this was repeated for all tables
name: clickhouse-partnership-solana
sources:
  blocks:
    dataset_name: solana.edge_blocks
    type: dataset
    version: 1.0.0
transforms:
  blocks_transform:
    sql: >
      SELECT hash as block_hash, `timestamp` AS block_timestamp, height, leader, leader_reward, previous_block_hash, slot, transaction_count 
      FROM blocks 
    primary_key: block_timestamp, slot, block_hash
sinks:
  solana_blocks_sink:
    type: clickhouse
    table: blocks
    secret_name: CLICKHOUSE_PARTNERSHIP_SOLANA
    from: blocks_transform

```
