---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-1-trillion-row-challenge
topic: clickhouse-and-the-mta-data-challenge
ch_version_introduced: '0.309'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

in turn. ### Challenge 1: cumulative values and outliers [\#](/blog/clickhouse-mta-data-challenge-subway-transits-demo#challenge-1-cumulative-values-and-outliers) MTA provides a longer form [description of the data](https://data.ny.gov/api/views/ug6q-shqc/files/29edbef3-268e-461d-95f1-374b1c8a6f9d?download=true&filename=MTA_SubwayTurnstileUsageData2015_Overview.pdf), which provides insight into some data quality issues and challenges. Not least, the `entries` and `exit` values are cumulative.

*\> Data is provided about every four hours for the cumulative register values for entries and exits for each turnstile, similar to odometer readings. The four\-hour intervals will differ from other stations due to the need for staggering to prevent flooding the system with audit readings all at once. Systemwide, stations have been set to begin audit transmittal between 00 to 03 hours, then every four hours after the first audit of the day. The number of people who entered or exited a turnstile in a period can be obtained by comparing it to an earlier reading.*

These cumulative values are challenging to use and would require queries to compute time ordered derivatives for every turnstile. We note that the 4 hour periodic delivery of data will make attributing usage of a station to specific periods still very imprecise. This is something we can't resolve, so counts below the granularity of this period are unlikely to be accurate.

These values also have some clear data quality issues:

*\> Turnstile audits are often not available every four hours, turnstiles sometimes count down instead of up, exit and entry counters periodically get reset, and the timestamps for audits vary between turnstiles. In addition, the data is 10 digits long and will roll over to zero on overflow.*

Ideally we'd like to compute the number of entries and exits for each row based on the difference to the previous time value for the turnstile. This requires us to reliably be able to identify a turnstile.

While turnstiles have an `scp` identifier, this is not unique across stations. Instead we can use a combination of the scp, ca (booth identifier at station) and unit(remote unit ID of the station) to identify a specific station.

To compute the number of entries and exits for each turnstile, requires a [window function](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/window-functions). The following computes the columns `entries_change` and `exits_change` for each row.
