---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/postgres-cdc-connector-clickpipes-private-preview
topic: postgres-cdc-in-clickhouse-a-year-in-review
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

relational/normalized schemas—an area that has already seen major gains over the past year and has been critical for hundreds of existing Postgres CDC customers; improved onboarding and observability for Materialized Views; and more. ### Maturing the Platform [\#](/blog/postgres-cdc-year-in-review-2025#maturing-the-platform)

A few important platform\-level features consistently come up in customer conversations, including support for OpenAPI and Terraform for Infrastructure as Code, expansion of ClickPipes Postgres CDC to additional clouds such as GCP and Azure, BYOC support, and more. We’ve made meaningful progress in these areas: OpenAPI support is currently in beta; Terraform support is planned for next quarter; work on GCP expansion is underway; and for BYOC, we introduced a temporary solution via PeerDB Helm charts, which will eventually power ClickPipes DB BYOC.

We plan to invest heavily in these capabilities over the next year to ensure a truly enterprise\-grade Postgres CDC experience for customers.

### Reducing the footguns [\#](/blog/postgres-cdc-year-in-review-2025#reducing-the-footguns)

Over the past year, we’ve seen customers run into a handful of footguns, a lot of them rooted in the inherent complexity of the problem. Examples include partial schema change support (we support ADD/DROP COLUMN, but not CHANGE TYPE), earlier bugs where nullability changes didn’t propagate when adding tables (now fixed), and operational issues like long\-running table additions that couldn’t be interrupted.

We’re tracking every one of these footguns and have either already resolved them or are actively working on fixes. This builds on the hundreds of iterative improvements we made last year, and we remain committed to continually refining the Postgres CDC experience.

We’ve strengthened our unit\-testing framework and are close to full code coverage. We’re also evaluating a new initiative to give customers a data\-consistency view, offering full visibility into how Postgres CDC transforms and replicates their data.

### Scaling Postgres logical replication [\#](/blog/postgres-cdc-year-in-review-2025#scaling-postgres-logical-replication)

We’re beginning to see early signals from several of our largest customers that they will need deeper improvements in Postgres logical replication as they scale to higher throughputs and more complex workloads. One capability we believe could meaningfully improve support for advanced use cases, especially those involving large or highly interleaved transactions, is adding support for [Postgres Logical Replication V2](https://blog.peerdb.io/exploring-versions-of-the-postgres-logical-replication-protocol) in Postgres CDC.
