---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres%20
topic: consuming-the-delta-lake-change-data-feed-for-cdc
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

…etc FROM my_delta_table ``` ``` For more ad\-hoc queries, the table functions **deltaLake** and **deltaLakeCluster** can be used to query data in place: ``` ``` SELECT col1, col2, col3, _file, _time, …etc FROM deltaLake('s3://path/to/deltalake/table', 'access-key', 'secret-key') ``` ```

Using ClickHouse as the query layer for your Delta tables is an effective strategy if the data is mostly cold and not frequently queried, and you are willing to tolerate the performance of remote object storage reads, without a need for duplication across your lakehouse\-warehouse. Some users could benefit from frequent, latency\-sensitive reads, likely using ClickHouse for real\-time data access used by other systems \- such as APIs, dashboards, recommender systems or other user\-facing applications. Furthermore, even with optimisation techniques such as caching, remote object storage scans can be slower and costly, making data residency in ClickHouse a compelling interface for such use cases.

Change Data Capture (CDC) is a process for replicating incremental changes from a Delta Lake table, typically after a snapshot of the data. This reduces data transfer overhead and ensures that ClickHouse always reflects the latest state of the data in the delta table with minimal latency.

## Key components of the pipeline [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#key-components-of-the-pipeline)

A CDC pipeline from Delta Lake to ClickHouse would involve the following core components:

- **Delta Lake table(s):** The source data lake where data is persisted.
- **Change Data Feed (CDF):** Delta Lake's mechanism for capturing row\-level changes.
- **ClickHouse:** The destination database to enable real\-time usage of the data.

### Data modelling [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#data-modelling)

Due to the eventually consistent reconciliation of the upstream state, we use the ClickHouse ReplacingMergeTree table engine, a variant of MergeTree that is helpful in CDC workflows to resolve duplication or out\-of\-order data ingest (such as insert, then delete, then update operations). These techniques more or less [align with Postgres data modelling guidance provided in the past](https://clickhouse.com/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2). A ClickHouse table can be created with the below DDL, with an `name` and `age` as our ordering key and the `_commit_version` from the Delta Table CDF as our version key. For append\-only workflows with no update or delete operations, a MergeTree table would provide more optimal query conditions.
