---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres%20
topic: consuming-the-delta-lake-change-data-feed-for-cdc
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

an `name` and `age` as our ordering key and the `_commit_version` from the Delta Table CDF as our version key. For append\-only workflows with no update or delete operations, a MergeTree table would provide more optimal query conditions.

```

```
CREATE TABLE default.new_cdc_table
(
    `id` String,
    `name` String,
    `age` Int64,
    `created_at` DateTime,
    `_change_type` String,
    `_commit_version` Int64,
    `_commit_timestamp` DateTime
)
ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree(`_commit_version`)
PARTITION BY toYYYYMM(`created_at`)
ORDER BY (`name`, `age`)
```


```

This table definition configures deduplication based on the primary key. When duplicates are found during merges, ClickHouse keeps only one row per unique key combination. Adding a version column (in this case, **\_commit\_version**) signals to ClickHouse to retain the row with the highest commit version. If no version column is specified, ClickHouse defaults to the last inserted row, which is typically not optimal for eventually consistent use cases such as CDC. This pattern of data insertion is well established and is what we use in the internals of the [Postgres](https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres) and [MySQL](https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/mysql) CDC processes with ClickPipes and PeerDB.

There are a few caveats to consider when using the ReplacingMergeTree to model CDC data. The first is merge timing \- unlike UPSERT operations in traditional RDBMSs, duplications aren’t removed immediately upon insertion. Deduplication of data only happens during background merge operations, which ClickHouse controls automatically. This can be circumvented by making queries on the table FINAL. Another condition some users find is the presence of a deleted record \- due to soft deleting the row, it continues to exist in the ClickHouse destination table with the last values or default ClickHouse values. The example script in our pipeline does not support deletion events at this time.

## Data preparation in Delta Lake [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#data-preparation-in-delta-lake)
