---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres%20
topic: consuming-the-delta-lake-change-data-feed-for-cdc
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

it continues to exist in the ClickHouse destination table with the last values or default ClickHouse values. The example script in our pipeline does not support deletion events at this time. ## Data preparation in Delta Lake [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#data-preparation-in-delta-lake)

[An example data loader script](https://github.com/ClickHouse/deltalake-cdc?tab=readme-ov-file#1-generate-sample-data) is used to create an unpartitioned Delta Lake table (although partitioning the table is recommended for very large tables) and stream synthetically generated data. The DataFrame library Polars is used to create records at a batch size provided. A sample performance benchmark of the data generation is that it can generate and write 20,000 records at a time, which is approximately 10MB worth of data into the Delta Lake table that can be generated on a c5\.large AWS EC2 instance with 2 vCPU and 4 GB RAM every 1 second in the same region as the S3 bucket; the batch size is configurable and can be run on commodity hardware such as a laptop. The data loader script will create the Delta Lake table if it doesn’t already exist, and enable the CDF on creation, which has an insignificant impact on insertion. Once there are enough commits in the Delta Lake table, the data is ready to start ingesting into ClickHouse.

## Change Data Capture [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#change-data-capture)

CDC can be a challenging process depending on the source and the protocols involved. Open Table Formats (OTF) like Delta Lake and Apache Iceberg introduce complexity for CDC compared to traditional transactional databases like Postgres. While Postgres maintains a built\-in Write\-Ahead log (WAL) that records every change in chronological order within transaction boundaries, open table formats must reconstruct change streams from file\-level operations across distributed storage. These formats rely on metadata layers and commit version differencing to track changes, which creates challenges in maintaining ordering, handling concurrent writes, and ensuring that consumers can reliably identify what changed between table versions. Fortunately, Delta Lake provides the [Change Data Feed (CDF)](https://docs.delta.io/latest/delta-change-data-feed.html), which enables operations on row\-level data and can be processed by downstream systems like ClickHouse and ClickPipes. The change data is committed as part of the transaction, and becomes available at the same time new data is committed to the table. This setting can be enabled on Delta Lake table creation:
