---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres%20
topic: consuming-the-delta-lake-change-data-feed-for-cdc
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

in CDC / add row / remove row operations. Separate DataFusion execution plans are created for each file type. It then combines all 3 operations and projects the final schema with the CDF metadata columns (\_change\_type, \_commit\_version, \_commit\_timestamp).

The underlying library supports consuming the CDF from a version or timestamp, but for our example, we have opted to support only version. The number of records received can vary based on the size of changes made when that version was committed. To control for this, we batch records in groups of \~80,000, which we found optimal for collecting CDF records and writing to ClickHouse; once a batch size of change data records has met or exceeded this batch size, the data is flushed to ClickHouse. A sample benchmark is that our reference CDF reader/writer can move \~80,000 records to ClickHouse in \~1\.2 seconds on a c5\.large AWS EC2 instance (2 vCPU, 4 GiB memory, 10 Gbps of network bandwidth), in the same region as the Delta Lake S3 bucket and the ClickHouse service. Scaling the instance profile beyond this did not improve the workload throughput. A potential optimisation could involve introducing multiple ClickHouse writers inserting batches between 10,000\-100,000 records based on the amount of data materialised from reading the CDF \- this could be ideal for bursty workloads, possibly caused by the likes of batch jobs, rather than data continuously streaming to the delta lake tables.

```

```
$ python main.py 
 -p "s3://path/to/deltalake/table" 
 -r "us-east-2"
 -t "default.my_cdc_table"
 -H "[service].us-east-2.aws.clickhouse.cloud"
 -v 28000
 -b 80000
```


```

```
2025-07-23 10:56:54,143 - INFO - Using provided AWS credentials
2025-07-23 10:56:54,625 - INFO - Starting continuous processing from version 28000
2025-07-23 10:56:55,064 - INFO - Processing changes from version 28000 to 28252
2025-07-23 10:57:02,185 - INFO - Processed batch 1: 81920 rows (total: 81920) in 1.55 seconds
2025-07-23 10:57:03,411 - INFO - Processed batch 2: 83616 rows (total: 165536) in 1.23 seconds
2025-07-23 10:57:04,535 - INFO - Processed batch 3: 83616 rows (total: 249152) in 1.12 seconds
2025-07-23 10:57:05,651 - INFO - Processed batch 4: 81920 rows (total: 331072) in 1.12 seconds
2025-07-23 10:57:06,754 - INFO - Processed batch 5: 81920 rows (total: 412992) in 1.10 seconds
...

```

## Snapshotting [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#snapshotting)
