---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres%20
topic: consuming-the-delta-lake-change-data-feed-for-cdc
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

way). Otherwise, the snapshot process would have to infer an appropriate column to act as a partitioning key. This would require batch tracking but would yield significant performance benefits at the cost of increased CPU and memory usage.

What is notable and interesting about coupling this approach to the above CDF reader is that both can, in theory, be run at the same time. Unlike traditional RDBMS CDC ClickPipes, where an initial load (if selected) is performed first, and then the database\-specific CDC log is consumed, the Delta Lake process can happen simultaneously, as it will eventually resolve to its correct state due to the CDC log having higher versions than the snapshot. In RDBMS CDC ClickPipes, running initial load from a snapshot and CDC in parallel is non\-trivial and a difficult implementation. In MySQL, for instance, there isn't a snapshot or replication slot provided to us. That means there isn’t a guarantee that events will be synced in chronological order if a snapshot and binlogs are read in parallel. Currently, in all CDC ClickPipes, if 1 table needs to be resynced, all CDC operations are typically stalled until that snapshot is complete. This does not have to be the case for Delta Lake CDC, as tables can be resynced without impacting the CDF consumption of other tables \- this improves CDF consumption throughput across multiple tables.

## Limitations of the reference implementation [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#limitations-of-the-reference-implementation)

This reference implementation is a precursor to a production\-grade ClickPipe and has notable limitations. It is not production\-ready. It lays a foundation that you can extend and integrate into your existing orchestration and processing tools, such as Spark or Airflow, to build a production\-ready Delta Lake to ClickHouse replication / CDC.

### Fault tolerance [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#fault-tolerance)

Currently, when starting the CDC process, the user has to specify the version. If, for whatever reason, the script fails and stops working, the user would have to take note of the last version that was processed and restart the script or start the script again. Offset tracking is a key feature of all CDC ClickPipes. This is also the case for large snapshots, as queries can fail to complete for various reasons.

Updates and Deletes
