---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres%20
topic: consuming-the-delta-lake-change-data-feed-for-cdc
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

restart the script or start the script again. Offset tracking is a key feature of all CDC ClickPipes. This is also the case for large snapshots, as queries can fail to complete for various reasons. Updates and Deletes

We use the ReplacingMergeTree table for CDC workloads that have update and delete operations—essentially treating these DML operations as INSERT operations. This leads to the eventually consistent table state as we described above.

ClickHouse, like most column stores, was not originally designed for fast row\-level updates. However, [since June 2025, ClickHouse v25\.7 has supported high\-performance, SQL\-standard UPDATEs](https://clickhouse.com/blog/updates-in-clickhouse-2-sql-style-updates).

ReplacingMergeTree is already used in all ClickPipe CDC connectors and has proved reliable and performant in production for many years; hence, we continue to use this pattern.

### Schema evolution [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#schema-evolution)

Snapshotting the initial state of the table is unlikely to be troublesome as the schema is fixed at this time. The Delta Lake CDF has a limitation when dealing with schema changes as these DDL change events are not represented at the protocol level. Non\-additive schema changes like column renames, drops, or data type changes can break CDF consumption entirely. This requires the users to carefully manage schema evolution timelines, or otherwise be forced to stop the CDC process and resync the table state. One such approach is to use catalog support \- we only provide IAM credential support in our script, and understand we would need to support various authentication protocols to meet customers where they are. Multiple catalogs may need to be supported, such as Amazon Glue catalog, Open Metadata, Hive MetaStore, or Unity Catalog.

### Delete support [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#delete-support)

Supporting deletes is a key feature in CDC pipelines. It is not relevant for snapshots (if applicable) as deletes are already considered materialised due to the ACID properties of a Delta Lake table. Our prototype currently ignores deletes in the change log. Like our other CDC ClickPipes, we plan to support soft deleting where the row is marked as deleted, the primary key and metadata fields continue to be present, but all other row fields are set to the default value of the ClickHouse type. Due to performance reasons, we recommend against using null values in the tombstoned record, as this can impact compression.

## Planned improvements [\#](/blog/consuming-delta-lake-change-data-feed-cdc#planned-improvements)
