---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/company/events/v22-6-release-webinar/
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-june-2022-materialized-but-still-real-time
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

`argMax(arg, val)` function. For a given column `val` it will find the maximum value and return the corresponding `arg` column. With a time series dataset this would be something like `argMax(temp, timestamp)` finding the most recent temperature reading.

Because frequent queries like threshold alert triggers might not just be looking at a single column, queries will often end up looking something like this:

```
SELECT device_id, timestamp,
	argMax(temp1, timestamp),
	argMax(pressure, timestamp),
	argMax(flowRate, timestamp)
FROM readings
WHERE device_id IN (<list_of_devices>)
GROUP BY device_id

```

Turns out, this is a very expensive query! For every `device_id` and `argMax` function, ClickHouse needs to scan all records until it finds the most recent value.

A common way to speed up this kind of query is to use a materialized view, pre\-aggregating the most recent values for all devices for a given time period. However, this only works well if all metrics are known beforehand (no new columns are ever added) and it will reduce the granularity of the data no longer allowing accurate point\-in\-time queries for an arbitrary timestamp. Instead, you can combine the two and achieve both the performance improvement of a materialized view and the flexibility of querying raw data. The approach is to generate a materialized view and use it to query all historical data, but combine it with the real\-time data up to the most recent requested timestamp.

Start by creating a summary table that the materialized view will write 15\-minute summaries of the data to (or any other interval that makes sense, e.g. 5 minutes or 1 hour):

```
CREATE TABLE readings_15min
	device_id LowCardinality(String),
	timestamp_start DateTime64,
	temp AggregateFunction(argMax, Nullable(Float64), DateTime64),
	pressure AggregateFunction(argMax, Nullable(Float64), DateTime64),
	flowRate AggregateFunction(argMax, Nullable(Float64), DateTime64)
ENGINE = AggregatingMergeTree
ORDER BY (timestamp_start, device_id)

```

Create the materialized view:

```
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW readings_mv TO readings_15min 
AS SELECT toStartOfFifteenMinutes(timestamp) AS timestamp_start,
	device_id,
	argMaxState(temp, timestamp) AS temp,
	argMaxState(pressure, timestamp) AS pressure,
	argMaxState(flowRate, timestamp) AS flowRate
FROM readings
GROUP BY device_id, toStartOfFifteenMinutes(timestamp)

```

When querying, combine data from both the materialized view and the most recent data from the raw data, combining the results in a final aggregation to get the correct result:
