---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/working-with-time-series-data-and-functions-ClickHouse
topic: building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-part-2-traces
ch_version_introduced: '35.081853291'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 23
---

Each row represents a span, some of which are also root spans. There are some key fields, which with a basic understanding, will allow us to construct useful queries. A full description of trace metadata is available [here](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/):

- **TraceId** \- The Trace Id represents the trace that the Span is a part of.
- **SpanId** \- A Span's unique Id
- **ParentSpanId** \- The span id of the Span’s parent span. This allows a trace call history to be constructed. This will be empty for root spans.
- **SpanName \- the name of the operation**
- **[SpanKind](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/reference/specification/trace/api/#spankind)** \- When a span is created, its Kind is either a Client, Server, Internal, Producer, or Consumer. This Kind hints to the tracing backend as to how the trace should be assembled. It effectively describes the relationship of the Span to its children and parents.
- **ServiceName** \- the name of the service, e.g., Adservice, from which the Span originates.
- **[ResourceAttributes](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#attributes)** \- key\-value pairs that contain metadata that you can use to annotate a Span to carry information about the operation it is tracking. This might, for example, contain Kubernetes information, e.g., pod name or values concerning the host. Note our schema forces keys and values to be both String with a Map type.
- **SpanAttributes** \- additional span level attributes, e.g., `thread.id`.
- **Duration** \- duration of the Span in nanoseconds.
- **[StatusCode](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#attributes)** \- Either UNSET, OK, or ERROR. The latter will be set when there is a known error in the application code, such as an exception.
- **[Events\*](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#span-events)** \- While possibly inappropriate for dashboard overviews, these can interest the application developer. This can be thought of as a structured annotation on a Span, typically used to denote a meaningful, singular point during the Span’s duration, e.g., when a page becomes interactive. The `Events.Timestamp`, `Events.Name`, and `Events.Attributes` can be used to reconstruct the full event \- note this relies on array positions.
- **[Links\*](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/concepts/signals/traces/#span-links)**  \- These imply a casual relationship to another span. For example, these might be asynchronous operations executed as a result of this specific operation. A processing job that is queued due to a request operation might be an appropriate span link. Here the developer might link the last Span from the first trace to the first Span in the second trace to causally associate them. In the ClickHouse schema, we again rely on Array types and associating the positions of the columns `Links.TraceId`, `Links.SpanId`, and `Links.Attributes`.
