---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/working-with-time-series-data-and-functions-ClickHouse
topic: building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-part-2-traces
ch_version_introduced: '35.081853291'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 23
---

) ENGINE = MergeTree PARTITION BY toDate(Timestamp) ORDER BY (ServiceName, SpanName, toUnixTimestamp(Timestamp), TraceId) TTL toDateTime(Timestamp) + toIntervalDay(3) SETTINGS index_granularity = 8192, ttl_only_drop_parts = 1 ``` Other than TTL (see below) there are some important observations regarding this schema:

- The **ORDER BY** clause in our schema determines how our [data is sorted and stored on disk](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes). This will also control the [construction of our sparse index](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes) and, most importantly, directly impact our compression levels and query performance. The current clause of `(ServiceName, SpanName, toUnixTimestamp(Timestamp), TraceId)` sorts the data in order of right to left and optimizes for queries which first filter by ServiceName. Filter restrictions by later\-ordered columns will become increasingly ineffective. If your access patterns differ due to differences in your diagnosis workflows, you might modify this order and the columns used. When doing this, consider best practices to ensure the [key is optimally exploited](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes#the-primary-index-is-used-for-selecting-granules).
- **PARTITION BY** \- this clause causes a physical separation of the data on disk. While useful for the efficient deletion of data (see TTL below), it can potentially [positively and negatively impact query performance](https://medium.com/datadenys/using-partitions-in-clickhouse-3ea0decb89c4). Based on the partition expression `toDate(Timestamp)`, which creates a partition by day, queries that target the most recent data, e.g., the last 24 hours, will benefit. Queries over many partitions/days (only likely if you expand your retention beyond the default of 3 days) will conversely potentially be negatively impacted. If you expand your data retention period to months or years or have access patterns that need to target a wider time range, consider using a different expression, e.g., partition by week, if you have a TTL of a year.
- **Map** \- the Map type is used extensively in the above schema for attributes. This has been selected as the keys here are dynamic and application specific. The Map type’s flexibility here is useful but at some cost. Accessing a map key requires the entire column to be read and loaded. Accessing the key of a map will therefore incur a greater cost than if the key was an explicit column at the root \- especially if the map is large with many keys. The difference in performance here will depend on the size of the map but can be considerable. To address this, users should [materialize](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/table#materialized) frequently queried map key/value pairs to columns on the root. These [materialized columns](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/table#materialized) will, in turn, be populated at INSERT time from the corresponding map value and be available for fast access. We show an example below where we materialize the key `host.name` from the Map column `ResourceAttributes` to the root column `Host`:
