---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/working-with-time-series-data-and-functions-ClickHouse
topic: building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-part-2-traces
ch_version_introduced: '35.081853291'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 23
---

turn, be populated at INSERT time from the corresponding map value and be available for fast access. We show an example below where we materialize the key `host.name` from the Map column `ResourceAttributes` to the root column `Host`:

```
 CREATE TABLE otel_traces
  (
      `Timestamp` DateTime64(9) CODEC(Delta(8), ZSTD(1)),
      `HostName` String MATERIALIZED ResourceAttributes['host.name'],
      `ResourceAttributes` Map(LowCardinality(String), String) CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
       ....
  )
  ENGINE = MergeTree
  PARTITION BY toDate(Timestamp)
  ORDER BY (ServiceName, SpanName, toUnixTimestamp(Timestamp), TraceId)
  TTL toDateTime(Timestamp) + toIntervalDay(3)
 
```

Alternatively, this can be applied retrospectively once data has been inserted, and your access patterns are identified:

```
ALTER TABLE otel_traces ADD COLUMN HostName String MATERIALIZED ResourceAttributes['host.name'];

ALTER TABLE otel_traces MATERIALIZE COLUMN HostName;

```

This process requires a mutation which can be [I/O intensive and should be scheduled with caution](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/bestpractices/avoid-mutations).
The Map type additionally requires the values to be the same type \- String in our case. This loss of type information can require casts at query time. Furthermore, users should know the required syntax to access map keys \- see “Querying Traces”.
- **Bloom filters** \- To compensate for the restrictive ORDER BY key, the schema creates several [data\-skipping bloom indices](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/improving-query-performance/skipping-indexes). These are designed to speed up queries that either filter by trace id or the maps or keys of our attributes. Generally, secondary indices are effective when a strong correlation between the primary key and the targeted column/expression exists, or a value is very sparse in the data. This ensures that when applying a filter matching this expression, [granules on disk](https://clickhose.com/docs/en/optimize/skipping-indexes) that have a reasonable chance of not containing the target value can be skipped. For our specific schema, our TraceId should be very sparse and correlated with the ServiceName of the primary key. Likewise, our attribute keys and values will be correlated with the ServiceName and SpanName columns of the primary key. Generally, we consider these to be good candidates for bloom filters. The TraceId index is highly effective, but the others have not been tested under real\-world workloads, so could potentially be a premature optimization until evidence suggests otherwise. We will evaluate the scalability of this model in a future post, stay tuned!

### TTL [\#](/blog/storing-traces-and-spans-open-telemetry-in-clickhouse#ttl)
