---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/working-with-time-series-data-and-functions-ClickHouse
topic: building-an-observability-solution-with-clickhouse-part-2-traces
ch_version_introduced: '35.081853291'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 23
---

but the others have not been tested under real\-world workloads, so could potentially be a premature optimization until evidence suggests otherwise. We will evaluate the scalability of this model in a future post, stay tuned! ### TTL [\#](/blog/storing-traces-and-spans-open-telemetry-in-clickhouse#ttl)

Via the collector parameter `ttl_days`, the user is able to control the expiration of data through ClickHouse's TTL functionality. This value is reflected in the expression `TTL toDateTime(Timestamp) + toIntervalDay(3)`, which defaults to 3\. Data older than this will be deleted based on an asynchronous background process. For more details on TTL, see [here](https://clickhouse.com/blog/using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse).

The schemas above use [PARTITION BY](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree/#partition-by) to assist TTL. Specifically, this allows a day's worth of data to be efficiently deleted when combined with the parameter `ttl_only_drop_parts=1`. As noted above, this may [positively and negatively impact queries](https://medium.com/datadenys/using-partitions-in-clickhouse-3ea0decb89c4).

### Trace Id Materialized View [\#](/blog/storing-traces-and-spans-open-telemetry-in-clickhouse#trace-id-materialized-view)

In addition to the main table, the ClickHouse exporter creates a m[aterialized view](https://clickhouse.com/blog/using-materialized-views-in-clickhouse). A materialized view is a special trigger that stores the result of a SELECT query on data as it is inserted into a target table. This target table can summarize data (using an aggregation) in a format optimized for specific queries. In the exporter's case, the following view is created:

```
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW otel_traces_trace_id_ts_mv TO otel_traces_trace_id_ts
(
	`TraceId` String,
	`Start` DateTime64(9),
	`End` DateTime64(9)
) AS
SELECT
	TraceId,
	min(Timestamp) AS Start,
	max(Timestamp) AS End
FROM otel_traces
WHERE TraceId != ''
GROUP BY TraceId

```

This specific materialized view is running a `GROUP BY TraceId` and identifying the max and min timestamp per id. This executes on every block of data (potentially millions of rows) inserted into the table `otel_traces`. This summarized data is, in turn, inserted into a target table `otel_traces_trace_id_ts`. Below we show several rows from this table and its schema:
