---
source: blog
url: https://www.tydo.com/
topic: speed-meets-scale-how-clickhouse-helps-tydo-deliver-lightning-fast-customer-analytics
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

database struggled to keep up as data volumes and query complexity grew. Its row\-based structure proved inefficient when processing the large, columnar datasets required by enterprise brands, and its high latency made it hard to deliver real\-time insights.

To address some of these issues, Manav and the team experimented with BigQuery. But while BigQuery offered cheaper storage and was user\-friendly for data analysts, it wasn’t ideal for real\-time analytics or application backends. As Manav explains, “BigQuery is pretty good at querying a lot of data in a reasonable amount of time, but you’re not going to get sub\-second latency like you get with ClickHouse.” The team also found that while BigQuery scaled better than Postgres, the high cost of frequent queries made it an “expensive” option for the real\-time, high\-dimensional analysis they needed.

## A better database solution [\#](/blog/speed-meets-scale-how-clickhouse-helps-tydo-deliver-lightning-fast-customer-analytics#a-better-database-solution)

To keep scaling and serving larger, data\-intensive workloads, the Tydo team knew they needed a more performant, scalable, and cost\-effective database solution. After reviewing their options, they chose ClickHouse for its ability to handle high\-dimensional datasets while delivering sub\-second query performance.

“One of the reasons we were so excited to use ClickHouse is it’s just so much faster than other databases,” Manav says.

As Manav explains, ClickHouse outperformed Postgres and BigQuery when managing analytics\-driven tables, a crucial part of Tydo’s customer segmentation and insights. The [ReplacingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree) engine promised to optimize data storage by streamlining updates and managing rapidly changing data, while [sparse indexing](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes) would allow for lightning\-fast querying, especially for large\-scale analytics.

ClickHouse’s columnar storage also meant Tydo could store and process data more efficiently by targeting specific columns needed for each query, reducing both storage costs and query times. The result was high throughput — the ability to handle large volumes of data quickly and efficiently — without the latency issues that plagued their earlier databases.

In the end, ClickHouse’s speed, scalability, and cost\-efficiency, driven by advanced data compression, made it the perfect solution for Tydo’s growing data needs.

## Built for flexibility and accuracy [\#](/blog/speed-meets-scale-how-clickhouse-helps-tydo-deliver-lightning-fast-customer-analytics#built-for-flexibility-and-accuracy)
