---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/
topic: five-methods-for-database-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

We used the same approach to get a data set for functional testing. After ClickHouse was released as open source in 2016, people began questioning these tests. ## Shortcomings of tests on private data [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#shortcomings-of-tests-on-private-data) Our performance tests:

- Couldn't be reproduced independently because they used private data that can't be published. Some of the functional tests are not available to external users for the same reason.
- Needed further development. The set of tests needed to be substantially expanded in order to isolate performance changes in individual parts of the system.
- Didn't run on a per\-commit basis or for individual pull requests. External developers couldn't check their code for performance regressions.

We could solve these problems by throwing out the old tests and writing new ones based on open data, like [flight data for the USA](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/) and [taxi rides in New York](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/nyc-taxi). Or we could use benchmarks like TPC\-H, TPC\-DS, and [Star Schema Benchmark](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/star-schema). The disadvantage is that this data was very different from web analytics data, and we would rather keep the test queries.

### Why it's important to use real data [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#why-its-important-to-use-real-data)

Performance should only be tested on real data from a production environment. Let's look at some examples.

### Example 1 [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#example-1)

Let's say you fill a database with evenly distributed pseudorandom numbers. Data compression isn't going to work in this case, although data compression is essential to analytical databases. There is no silver bullet solution to the challenge of choosing the right compression algorithm and the right way to integrate it into the system since data compression requires a compromise between the speed of compression and decompression and the potential compression efficiency. But systems that can't compress data are guaranteed losers. If your tests use evenly distributed pseudorandom numbers, this factor is ignored, and the results will be distorted.

Bottom line: Test data must have a realistic compression ratio.

### Example 2 [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#example-2)

Let's say we are interested in the execution speed of this SQL query:

```
SELECT RegionID, uniq(UserID) AS visitors
    FROM test.hits
GROUP BY RegionID
ORDER BY visitors DESC
LIMIT 10

```

This was a typical query for web analytics product. What affects the processing speed?
