---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/
topic: five-methods-for-database-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

execution speed of this SQL query: ``` SELECT RegionID, uniq(UserID) AS visitors FROM test.hits GROUP BY RegionID ORDER BY visitors DESC LIMIT 10 ``` This was a typical query for web analytics product. What affects the processing speed?

- How `GROUP BY` is executed.
- Which data structure is used for calculating the `uniq` aggregate function.
- How many different RegionIDs there are and how much RAM each state of the `uniq` function requires.

But another important factor is that the amount of data is distributed unevenly between regions. (It probably follows a power law. I put the distribution on a log\-log graph, but I can't say for sure.) If this is the case, the states of the `uniq` aggregate function with fewer values must use very little memory. When there are a lot of different aggregation keys, every single byte counts. How can we get generated data that has all these properties? The obvious solution is to use real data.

Many DBMSs implement the HyperLogLog data structure for an approximation of COUNT(DISTINCT), but none of them work very well because this data structure uses a fixed amount of memory. ClickHouse has a function that uses [a combination of three different data structures](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/uniqcombined), depending on the size of the data set.

Bottom line: Test data must represent distribution properties of the real data well enough, meaning cardinality (number of distinct values per column) and cross\-column cardinality (number of different values counted across several different columns).

### Example 3 [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#example-3)

Instead of testing the performance of the ClickHouse DBMS, let's take something simpler, like hash tables. For hash tables, it's essential to choose the right hash function. This is not as important for `std::unordered_map`, because it's a hash table based on chaining, and a prime number is used as the array size. The standard library implementation in GCC and Clang uses a trivial hash function as the default hash function for numeric types. However, `std::unordered_map` is not the best choice when we are looking for maximum speed. With an open\-addressing hash table, we can't just use a standard hash function. Choosing the right hash function becomes the deciding factor.
