---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/
topic: five-methods-for-database-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

production data. We would also like the generated data to be interesting. However, these are very loosely\-defined requirements, and we aren't planning to write up a formal problem statement or specification for this task. ## Possible solutions [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#possible-solutions)

I don't want to make it sound like this problem was particularly important. It was never actually included in planning, and no one had intentions to work on it. I hoped that an idea would come up someday, and suddenly I would be in a good mood and be able to put everything else off until later.

### Explicit probabilistic models [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#explicit-probabilistic-models)

- We want to preserve the continuity of time series data. This means that for some types of data, we need to model the difference between neighboring values rather than the value itself.
- To model "joint cardinality" of columns, we would also have to explicitly reflect dependencies between columns. For instance, there are usually very few IP addresses per user ID, so to generate an IP address, we would have to use a hash value of the user ID as a seed and add a small amount of other pseudorandom data.
- We weren't sure how to express the dependency that the same user frequently visits URLs with matching domains at approximately the same time.

All this can be written in a C\+\+ "script" with the distributions and dependencies hard coded. However, Markov models are obtained from a combination of statistics with smoothing and adding noise. I started writing a script like this, but after writing explicit models for ten columns, it became unbearably boring — and the "hits" table in the web analytics product had more than 100 columns way back in 2012\.

```
EventTime.day(std::discrete_distribution<>({
    0, 0, 13, 30, 0, 14, 42, 5, 6, 31, 17, 0, 0, 0, 0, 23, 10, ...})(random));
EventTime.hour(std::discrete_distribution<>({
    13, 7, 4, 3, 2, 3, 4, 6, 10, 16, 20, 23, 24, 23, 18, 19, 19, ...})(random));
EventTime.minute(std::uniform_int_distribution<UInt8>(0, 59)(random));
EventTime.second(std::uniform_int_distribution<UInt8>(0, 59)(random));

UInt64 UserID = hash(4, powerLaw(5000, 1.1));
UserID = UserID / 10000000000ULL * 10000000000ULL
    + static_cast<time_t>(EventTime) + UserID % 1000000;

random_with_seed.seed(powerLaw(5000, 1.1));
auto get_random_with_seed = [&]{ return random_with_seed(); };

```

Advantages:

- Conceptual simplicity.

Disadvantages:

- A large amount of work is required.
- The solution only applies to one type of data.
