---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/
topic: five-methods-for-database-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

static_cast<time_t>(EventTime) + UserID % 1000000; random_with_seed.seed(powerLaw(5000, 1.1)); auto get_random_with_seed = [&]{ return random_with_seed(); }; ``` Advantages: - Conceptual simplicity. Disadvantages: - A large amount of work is required. - The solution only applies to one type of data.

And I preferred a more general solution that can be used for obfuscating any dataset.

In any case, this solution could be improved. Instead of manually selecting models, we could implement a catalog of models and choose the best among them (best fit plus some form of regularization). Or maybe we could use Markov models for all types of fields, not just for text. Dependencies between data could also be extracted automatically. This would require calculating the [relative entropy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kullback%E2%80%93Leibler_divergence) (the relative amount of information) between columns. A simpler alternative is to calculate relative cardinalities for each pair of columns (something like "how many different values of A are there on average for a fixed value B"). For instance, this will make it clear that `URLDomain` fully depends on the `URL`, and not vice versa.

But I also rejected this idea because there are too many factors to consider, and it would take too long to write.

### Neural networks [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#neural-networks)

As I've already mentioned, this task wasn't high on the priority list — no one was even thinking about trying to solve it. But as luck would have it, our colleague Ivan Puzirevsky was teaching at the Higher School of Economics. He asked me if I had any interesting problems that would work as suitable thesis topics for his students. When I offered him this one, he assured me it had potential. So I handed this challenge off to a nice guy "off the street" Sharif (he did have to sign an NDA to access the data, though).

I shared all my ideas with him but emphasized that there were no restrictions on how the problem could be solved, and a good option would be to try approaches that I know nothing about, like using LSTM to generate a text dump of data. This seemed promising after coming across the article [The Unreasonable Effectiveness of Recurrent Neural Networks](http://karpathy.github.io/2015/05/21/rnn-effectiveness/).
