---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/
topic: five-methods-for-database-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

generated data. The result was stunning: the most frequent characters were Ð and Ñ. Don't worry about Sharif, though. He successfully defended his thesis, and we happily forgot about the whole thing. ### Mutation of compressed data [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#mutation-of-compressed-data)

Let's assume that the problem statement has been reduced to a single point: we need to generate data that has the same compression ratio as the source data, and the data must decompress at the same speed. How can we achieve this? We need to edit compressed data bytes directly! This allows us to change the data without changing the size of the compressed data, plus everything will work fast. I wanted to try out this idea right away, despite the fact that the problem it solves is different from what we started with. But that's how it always is.

So how do we edit a compressed file? Let's say we are only interested in LZ4\. LZ4 compressed data is composed of sequences, which in turn are strings of not\-compressed bytes (literals), followed by a match copy:

1. Literals (copy the following N bytes as is).
2. Matches with a minimum repeat length of 4 (repeat N bytes in the file at a distance of M).

Source data:

`Hello world Hello.`

Compressed data (arbitrary example):

`literals 12 "Hello world " match 5 12.`

In the compressed file, we leave "match" as\-is and change the byte values in "literals". As a result, after decompressing, we get a file in which all repeating sequences at least 4 bytes long are also repeated at the same distance, but they consist of a different set of bytes (basically, the modified file doesn't contain a single byte that was taken from the source file).

But how do we change the bytes? The answer isn't obvious because, in addition to the column types, the data also has its own internal, implicit structure that we would like to preserve. For example, text data is often stored in UTF\-8 encoding, and we want the generated data also to be valid UTF\-8\. I developed a simple heuristic that involves meeting several criteria:
