---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/
topic: five-methods-for-database-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

is a pseudorandom permutation. However, I should point out that hash functions don't have to be one\-to\-one (even hashes of N bits to N bits). Or here's another interesting [example from elementary number theory](https://preshing.com/20121224/how-to-generate-a-sequence-of-unique-random-integers/) from Jeff Preshing's website.

How can we use pseudorandom permutations to solve our problem? We can use them to transform all numeric fields so we can preserve the cardinalities and mutual cardinalities of all combinations of fields. In other words, COUNT(DISTINCT) will return the same value as before the transformation and, furthermore, with any GROUP BY.

It is worth noting that preserving all cardinalities somewhat contradicts our goal of data anonymization. Let's say someone knows that the source data for site sessions contains a user who visited sites from 10 different countries, and they want to find that user in the transformed data. The transformed data also shows that the user visited sites from 10 different countries, which makes it easy to narrow down the search. However, even if they find out what the user was transformed into, it won't be very useful; all of the other data has also been transformed, so they won't be able to figure out what sites the user visited or anything else. But these rules can be applied in a chain. For example, suppose someone knows that the most frequently occurring website in our data is Google, with Yahoo in second place. In that case, they can use the ranking to determine which transformed site identifiers actually mean Yahoo and Google. There's nothing surprising about this since we are working with an informal problem statement, and we are trying to find a balance between the anonymization of data (hiding information) and preserving data properties (disclosure of information). For information about how to approach the data anonymization issue more reliably, read this [article](https://medium.com/georgian-impact-blog/a-brief-introduction-to-differential-privacy-eacf8722283b).

In addition to keeping the original cardinality of values, I also wanted to keep the order of magnitude of the values. What I mean is that if the source data contained numbers under 10, then I want the transformed numbers to also be small. How can we achieve this?
