---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/
topic: five-methods-for-database-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

wanted to keep the order of magnitude of the values. What I mean is that if the source data contained numbers under 10, then I want the transformed numbers to also be small. How can we achieve this?

For example, we can divide a set of possible values into size classes and perform permutations within each class separately (maintaining the size classes). The easiest way to do this is to take the nearest power of two or the position of the most significant bit in the number as the size class (these are the same thing). The numbers 0 and 1 will always remain as is. The numbers 2 and 3 will sometimes remain as is (with a probability of 1/2\) and will sometimes be swapped (with a probability of 1/2\). The set of numbers 1024\..2047 will be mapped to one of 1024! (factorial) variants, and so on. For signed numbers, we will keep the sign.

It's also doubtful whether we need a one\-to\-one function. We can probably just use a cryptographically strong hash function. The transformation won't be one\-to\-one, but the cardinality will be close to the same.

However, we need a cryptographically strong random permutation so that when we define a key and derive a permutation with that key, restoring the original data from the rearranged data without knowing the key would be difficult.

There is one problem: in addition to knowing nothing about neural networks and machine learning, I am also quite ignorant when it comes to cryptography. That leaves just my courage. I was still reading random web pages and found a link on [Hackers News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=15122540) to a discussion on Fabien Sanglard's page. It had a link to a [blog post](http://antirez.com/news/113) by Redis developer Salvatore Sanfilippo that talked about using a wonderful generic way of getting random permutations, known as a [Feistel network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Feistel_cipher).

The Feistel network is iterative, consisting of rounds. Each round is a remarkable transformation that allows you to get a one\-to\-one function from any function. Let's look at how it works.

1. The argument's bits are divided into two halves:

```
 arg: xxxxyyyy
 arg_l: xxxx
 arg_r: yyyy

```
