---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/
topic: five-methods-for-database-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

is a remarkable transformation that allows you to get a one\-to\-one function from any function. Let's look at how it works. 1. The argument's bits are divided into two halves: ``` arg: xxxxyyyy arg_l: xxxx arg_r: yyyy ```

2. The right half replaces the left. In its place, we put the result of XOR on the initial value of the left half and the result of the function applied to the initial value of the right half, like this:

```
res: yyyyzzzz
res_l = yyyy = arg_r
res_r = zzzz = arg_l ^ F(arg_r)

```

There is also a claim that if we use a cryptographically strong pseudorandom function for F and apply a Feistel round at least four times, we'll get a cryptographically strong pseudorandom permutation.

This is like a miracle: we take a function that produces random garbage based on data, insert it into the Feistel network, and we now have a function that produces random garbage based on data, but yet is invertible!

The Feistel network is at the heart of several data encryption algorithms. What we're going to do is something like encryption, only it's really bad. There are two reasons for this:

1. We are encrypting individual values independently and in the same way, similar to the Electronic Codebook mode of operation.
2. We are storing information about the order of magnitude (the nearest power of two) and the sign of the value, which means that some values do not change at all.

This way, we can obfuscate numeric fields while preserving the properties we need. For example, after using LZ4, the compression ratio should remain approximately the same because the duplicate values in the source data will be repeated in the converted data and at the same distances from each other.

### Markov models [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#markov-models)
