---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/
topic: five-methods-for-database-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 15
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

after using LZ4, the compression ratio should remain approximately the same because the duplicate values in the source data will be repeated in the converted data and at the same distances from each other. ### Markov models [\#](/blog/five-methods-of-database-obfuscation#markov-models)

Text models are used for data compression, predictive input, speech recognition, and random string generation. A text model is a probability distribution of all possible strings. Let's say we have an imaginary probability distribution of the texts of all the books that humanity could ever write. To generate a string, we just take a random value with this distribution and return the resulting string (a random book that humanity could write). But how do we find out the probability distribution of all possible strings?

First, this would require too much information. There are 256^10 possible strings that are 10 bytes in length, and it would take quite a lot of memory to explicitly write a table with the probability of each string. Second, we don't have enough statistics to accurately assess the distribution.

This is why we use a probability distribution obtained from rough statistics as the text model. For example, we could calculate the probability of each letter occurring in the text and then generate strings by selecting each next letter with the same probability. This primitive model works, but the strings are still very unnatural.

To improve the model slightly, we could also make use of the conditional probability of the letter's occurrence if it is preceded by N\-specific letters. N is a pre\-set constant. Let's say N \= 5, and we are calculating the probability of the letter "e" occurring after the letters "compr". This text model is called an Order\-N Markov model.

```
P(cata | cat) = 0.8
P(catb | cat) = 0.05
P(catc | cat) = 0.1
...

```
