---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/
topic: five-methods-for-database-obfuscation
ch_version_introduced: '1.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

the probability of the letter "e" occurring after the letters "compr". This text model is called an Order\-N Markov model. ``` P(cata | cat) = 0.8 P(catb | cat) = 0.05 P(catc | cat) = 0.1 ... ```

Let's look at how Markov models work on the website [of Hay Kranen](https://projects.haykranen.nl/markov/demo/). Unlike LSTM neural networks, the models only have enough memory for a small context of fixed\-length N, so they generate funny nonsensical texts. Markov models are also used in primitive methods for generating spam, and the generated texts can be easily distinguished from real ones by counting statistics that don't fit the model. There is one advantage: Markov models work much faster than neural networks, which is exactly what we need.

Example for Title (our examples are in Turkish because of the data used):

> Hyunday Butter'dan anket shluha — Politika head manşetleri \| STALKER BOXER Çiftede book — Yanudistkarışmanlı Mı Kanal \| League el Digitalika Haberler Haberleri — Haberlerisi — Hotels with Centry'ler Neden babah.com


We can calculate statistics from the source data, create a Markov model, and generate new data. Note that the model needs smoothing to avoid disclosing information about rare combinations in the source data, but this is not a problem. We use a combination of models from 0 to N. If statistics are insufficient for order N, the N−1 model is used instead.

But we still want to preserve the cardinality of data. In other words, if the source data had 123456 unique URL values, the result should have approximately the same number of unique values. We can use a deterministically initialized random number generator to achieve this. The easiest way is to use a hash function and apply it to the original value. In other words, we get a pseudorandom result that is explicitly determined by the original value.
