---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p1
topic: ann-vector-search-with-sql-powered-lsh-random-projections
ch_version_introduced: '0.933'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 22
---

a [test set from Glove](https://nlp.stanford.edu/projects/glove/) consisting of 2\.1m vectors trained from 840B [CommonCrawl](https://commoncrawl.org/) tokens. Each vector in this set has 300 dimensions and represents a word. For our testing, we’ll use a ClickHouse Cloud instance with 16 cores.

We utilize the following schema for our target table. As discussed in previous posts, vectors in ClickHouse are just arrays of 32\-bit floats.

```
CREATE TABLE glove
(
  `word` String,
  `vector` Array(Float32)
)
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY word

```

To load this dataset, we can use `clickhouse local` to extract the word and vector with string and array functions before piping the result to our client.

```
clickhouse local --query "SELECT trim(splitByChar(' ', line)[1]) as word, arraySlice(splitByChar(' ', line),2) as vector FROM file('glove.840B.300d.zip :: glove.840B.300d.txt','LineAsString') FORMAT Native" | clickhouse client --host <host> --secure --password '<password>' --query "INSERT INTO glove FORMAT Native" 

```

Once loaded, we need to define our planes. We’ll store these in a table for fast lookup:

```
CREATE TABLE planes (  		
  normal Array(Float32),	
  offset Array(Float32)
) 
ENGINE = MergeTree 
ORDER BY ()

```

The offset and normal here will be the midpoint and difference of two random vectors, as described earlier. We’ll populate this with a simple `INSERT INTO SELECT`. Note that at this point, we need to define the number of planes we wish to use to partition the space.

For the example below, we choose to use 128 planes to get started. This will result in a bit mash for each vector of 128 bits, which can be represented using a UInt128\. To create 128 planes, we need 256 random vectors (2 for each plane). We group this random set using the expression `intDiv(rowNumberInAllBlocks(), 2)` and use the `min` and `max` functions to ensure a different vector is selected for each random point.

```
SELECT min(vector) AS v1, max(vector) AS v2
FROM
(
	SELECT vector
	FROM glove
	ORDER BY rand() ASC
	LIMIT 256
)
GROUP BY intDiv(rowNumberInAllBlocks(), 2)

```

The above gives us 128 rows, each with two random vectors, `v1` and `v2`. We need to perform a vector difference to compute our' normal' column. A simple subtraction achieves this. The midpoint, called `offset` in the above table, can be computed using `(v1 + v2)/2`.
