---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p1
topic: ann-vector-search-with-sql-powered-lsh-random-projections
ch_version_introduced: '0.933'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 21
total_chunks_in_doc: 22
---

vectors and their dimensionality. Generally, more bits \= better search quality (and recall) due to greater parametrization and partitioning of the space as well as fewer collisions in our LSH values at a cost of slower query performance.

For glove, we had 128 bits in our LSH, giving us effectively 2\*128 \= 3\.4^1038 buckets in our hash. With 2 million vectors, this should result in a very low probability of collisions. The hash could possibly be reduced to 32 bits (represented via UInt32\) with a sufficient number of buckets for minimal collisions. Our brief testing on the glove, however, suggested a value of 128 bits delivered the best result quality despite most buckets never being filled \- the number of vectors per bucket can be determined with a simple aggregation and count on the bit column. While we have less than one vector per bucket on average with no collisions, increasing the resolution beyond the number required to avoid collisions improves the precision of the buckets and partitioning of our space.

Users with higher dimensional vectors may wish to experiment using more bits e.g. 256 bits via the UInt256\. These larger spaces will require more planes to partition the vectors effectively. Be aware, however, that this will require more computational overhead as more bits will need to be compared. In summary, the number of bits/planes is often dataset\-dependent and requires some testing (especially when combined with distance thresholds and rescoring), although 128 seems to be a good starting point.

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/approximate-nearest-neighbour-ann-with-sql-powered-local-sensitive-hashing-lsh-random-projections#conclusion)

In this post, we’ve looked at how ClickHouse users can create vector indices using only SQL to accelerate nearest\-neighbor searches. More specifically, by creating random hyperplanes in high\-dimensional space and computing bit sequences, we can estimate the distance between vectors using a hamming distance calculation. This approach potentially speeds up vector searches by 10x or 4x for exact matching. We have presented the pros and cons of this approach. Let us know whether you’ve found this useful and tried the approach on your own dataset!

[Get started](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog) with ClickHouse Cloud today and receive $300 in credits. At the end of your 30\-day trial, continue with a pay\-as\-you\-go plan, or [contact us](/company/contact?loc=blog-cta-footer) to learn more about our volume\-based discounts. Visit our [pricing page](/pricing?loc=blog-cta-header) for details.
