---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/graphitemergetree.md)#
topic: graphitemergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

All of the parameters excepting `config_section` have the same meaning as in `MergeTree`.- `config_section` — Name of the section in the configuration file, where are the rules of rollup set. ## Rollup configuration[​](#rollup-configuration "Direct link to Rollup configuration")

The settings for rollup are defined by the [graphite\_rollup](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#graphite) parameter in the server configuration. The name of the parameter could be any. You can create several configurations and use them for different tables.

Rollup configuration structure:

required\-columns
patterns

### Required columns[​](#required-columns "Direct link to Required columns")

#### `path_column_name`[​](#path_column_name "Direct link to path_column_name")

`path_column_name` — The name of the column storing the metric name (Graphite sensor). Default value: `Path`.

#### `time_column_name`[​](#time_column_name "Direct link to time_column_name")

`time_column_name` — The name of the column storing the time of measuring the metric. Default value: `Time`.

#### `value_column_name`[​](#value_column_name "Direct link to value_column_name")

`value_column_name` — The name of the column storing the value of the metric at the time set in `time_column_name`. Default value: `Value`.

#### `version_column_name`[​](#version_column_name "Direct link to version_column_name")

`version_column_name` — The name of the column storing the version of the metric. Default value: `Timestamp`.

### Patterns[​](#patterns "Direct link to Patterns")

Structure of the `patterns` section:

```
pattern
    rule_type
    regexp
    function
pattern
    rule_type
    regexp
    age + precision
    ...
pattern
    rule_type
    regexp
    function
    age + precision
    ...
pattern
    ...
default
    function
    age + precision
    ...

```

ReferencesPatterns must be strictly ordered:1. Patterns without `function` or `retention`.
2. Patterns with both `function` and `retention`.
3. Pattern `default`.

When processing a row, ClickHouse checks the rules in the `pattern` sections. Each of `pattern` (including `default`) sections can contain `function` parameter for aggregation, `retention` parameters or both. If the metric name matches the `regexp`, the rules from the `pattern` section (or sections) are applied; otherwise, the rules from the `default` section are used.

Fields for `pattern` and `default` sections:
