---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/graphitemergetree.md)#
topic: graphitemergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

for aggregation, `retention` parameters or both. If the metric name matches the `regexp`, the rules from the `pattern` section (or sections) are applied; otherwise, the rules from the `default` section are used. Fields for `pattern` and `default` sections:

- `rule_type` \- a rule's type. It's applied only to a particular metrics. The engine use it to separate plain and tagged metrics. Optional parameter. Default value: `all`.
It's unnecessary when performance is not critical, or only one metrics type is used, e.g. plain metrics. By default only one type of rules set is created. Otherwise, if any of special types is defined, two different sets are created. One for plain metrics (root.branch.leaf) and one for tagged metrics (root.branch.leaf;tag1\=value1\).
The default rules are ended up in both sets.
Valid values:
	- `all` (default) \- a universal rule, used when `rule_type` is omitted.
	- `plain` \- a rule for plain metrics. The field `regexp` is processed as regular expression.
	- `tagged` \- a rule for tagged metrics (metrics are stored in DB in the format of `someName?tag1=value1&tag2=value2&tag3=value3`). Regular expression must be sorted by tags' names, first tag must be `__name__` if exists. The field `regexp` is processed as regular expression.
	- `tag_list` \- a rule for tagged metrics, a simple DSL for easier metric description in graphite format `someName;tag1=value1;tag2=value2`, `someName`, or `tag1=value1;tag2=value2`. The field `regexp` is translated into a `tagged` rule. The sorting by tags' names is unnecessary, ti will be done automatically. A tag's value (but not a name) can be set as a regular expression, e.g. `env=(dev|staging)`.
- `regexp` – A pattern for the metric name (a regular or DSL).
- `age` – The minimum age of the data in seconds.
- `precision`– How precisely to define the age of the data in seconds. Should be a divisor for 86400 (seconds in a day).
- `function` – The name of the aggregating function to apply to data whose age falls within the range `[age, age + precision]`. Accepted functions: min / max / any / avg. The average is calculated imprecisely, like the average of the averages.

### Configuration Example without rules types[​](#configuration-example "Direct link to Configuration Example without rules types")
