---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/38667
topic: introducing-inverted-indices-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.006'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

SQL query: ``` SELECT * FROM docs WHERE doc LIKE '%wind%'; ┌─key─┬─doc────────────────────┐ │ 0 │ Sail against the wind │ │ 3 │ See how the wind blows │ └─────┴────────────────────────┘ 2 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.006 sec. ```

As expected, this query returns the first and the last document. However, it quickly becomes expensive: we need to check whether each row of column "doc" matches the search term. This means that the runtime of the search grows proportionally with the table size. To avoid that, we create an inverted index on column `doc`. Since the inverted index is still in an experimental state, we first need to enable it. This step will become obsolete once inverted indexes become GA.

```
SET allow_experimental_inverted_index = true;

ALTER TABLE docs ADD INDEX inv_idx(doc) TYPE inverted;

ALTER TABLE docs MATERIALIZE INDEX inv_idx;

```

When creating the index, ClickHouse splits each document in the "docs" column into a list of terms. By default, splitting is done along whitespaces, but it is also possible to tokenize the text into [n\-grams](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/splitting-merging-functions/#ngrams). The resulting index will conceptually look like this:

| **Dictionary (Terms)** | **Posting Lists** |
| --- | --- |
| and | 1 |
| against | 0 |
| blows | 3 |
| how | 3 |
| Sail | 0, 2 |
| See | 3 |
| see | 1 |
| seas | 1 |
| seven | 2 |
| the | 0, 2, 3 |
| Wait | 1 |
| wind | 0, 3 |



As we can see, the inverted index associates each term with "postings", i.e., the row positions of the documents which contain the corresponding term.

The dictionary in inverted indexes is usually organized in a way that terms can be found quickly. The simplest method to achieve that is to store the terms in alphabetical sort order and to use binary search for lookups. In contrast to that, ClickHouse stores dictionaries as finite state transducers (FSTs). We will discuss FSTs in more detail below. Their main advantage is that redundancies, e.g., shared prefixes between adjacent terms, can be easily removed. This reduces the memory footprint of the dictionary and improves the overall throughput.
