---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: enhanced-clickhouse-cloud-monitoring-with-prometheus
ch_version_introduced: '2.15437109'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

if proficient in SQL, in many cases, constructing the correct queries in ClickHouse and finding the appropriate system table could be time\-consuming. This doesn’t also consider the need to configure appropriate access controls and permissions for the agent.

While [agents, such as Datadog](https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/clickhouse/?_gl=1*iimrav*_gcl_au*MTIyOTE0NTEyOC4xNzE0NTU5MTU0*_ga*MzEzNTA0MTk0LjE3MTQ1NTkxNTU.*_ga_KN80RDFSQK*MTcxNDU2MTYxNS4yLjAuMTcxNDU2MTYxNS4wLjAuMTkyNjc5Nzc1NQ..*_fplc*NUNqVVFSN2hEQU02YUEyJTJGS2VDV0l0MzFYQmZ5emNJem5BdWx2OHlKT2NvYiUyQnVnbiUyRno3S0lpWTkwU1dzdUNtWW5pOWtNWHlKbzJxZjNRVGh5R0JxUlZZMjBGTHV3JTJGWG93cmF2SlpycnR1JTJGeEE4WUY3V0pWY1M3RnhJTkl2dyUzRCUzRA..&_ga=2.15437109.220939076.1714559156-313504194.1714559155&tab=host), can be used to monitor ClickHouse Cloud, these typically came with limitations \- specifically in the case of Datadog, the routing by our Cloud proxy layer would mean the same instances would not be queried across invocations making the subsequent metrics challenging to interpret. This could be overcome with some careful configuration and use of the clusterAllReplicas function, these integrations would also suffer a common problem: their continued polling for metrics via SELECT queries would mean instances would never idle.

Given that our users rely on the ability of ClickHouse Cloud instances to idle when not used, thus minimizing compute costs, this behavior, which coupled with monitoring usage, was highly undesirable and a blocker for many users.

Finally, the Prometheus format is now almost a standard for this form of data and is supported by popular tools such as Grafana and Datadog with out\-of\-box integrations.

A simple endpoint that delivered Prometheus metrics for an instance without preventing unused instances from idling or waking up was clearly the preferred solution.

## A simple and elegant design [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-now-supports-prometheus-monitoring#a-simple-and-elegant-design)

Any endpoint thus had some quite simple requirements:

- **Deliver metrics in Prometheus format** \- compatible with existing commonly used monitoring agents.
- **No waking of idling instances** \- these should just return a simple message denoting their state.
- **Not prevent instances from idling** \- requests to this endpoint should not be considered when determining whether an instance should be idled.

While we could have possibly delivered this capability through configuration for each ClickHouse instance, e.g. using the existing ability to configure a [Prometheus endpoint in ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#prometheus), this represented an imperfect solution for our users. Ensuring these requests were not forwarded when an instance was idle was technically not elegant to implement. Furthermore, it meant users would need to create a user with appropriate roles and permissions for each instance and distribute these credentials to their agent. For many organizations, this would represent a security risk and seem unnecessarily complicated.
