---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-vs-promethous-high-cardinality-p1-understanding-the-problem
topic: clickhouse-vs-prometheus-for-high-cardinality-part-2-cardinality-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '5.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

dedicated post](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search-object-storage).* [Bloom filter indices](https://clickhouse.com/docs/optimize/skipping-indexes#bloom-filter-types) can also be used for this purpose and may be sufficient for many workloads. In practice, the best choice depends on the label distribution, query patterns, and the selectivity of the applied filters.

- **Analytical aggregations** \- In this model, metrics are represented as numeric columns, such as `response_time`. Aggregations become straightforward and efficient. If we want to compute something like `avg(response_time)`, ClickHouse only needs to read the `response_time` column for the rows that match the query filters. Thanks to the sparse index and secondary filters, the engine can identify the specific granule ranges that satisfy the filters and only read those ranges from disk. Those ranges can be processed in parallel across all CPU cores and servers in a cluster. This gives us effective predicate pushdown at the storage level.

As a result, aggregation performance is not directly tied to cardinality as in a series\-based model. It is more closely related to the number of rows that match the query filters. Only the relevant metric column needs to be read for the matching rows. Filters on high\-cardinality columns are often beneficial because they tend to reduce the number of rows scanned. In contrast, queries with no filters or filters on low\-cardinality columns will typically require more data to be read, which requires parallelized reads for performance.

### Example [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-promethous-high-cardinality-part-2-cardinality-in-clickhouse#example)

Consider the earlier `metrics` table. In our example, this stores 5 billion response times and sizes for our application. Some of the columns in this data naturally have high cardinality, and you would avoid using them as labels in any traditional time series database like Prometheus.

```
1SELECT count()
2FROM events
3
4┌────count()─┐
5│ 5339783200 │ -- 5.34 billion
6└────────────┘
7
81 row in set. Elapsed: 0.004 sec.
9
```
The following shows the cardinality of each column, as well as the total cardinality if we were to represent this using a time series model.
