---
source: blog
url: http://blacksmith.sh
topic: how-blacksmith-paired-postgres-and-clickhouse-for-fast-ci-and-real-time-observability
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

plain English and generates SQL queries based on their schema, saved queries, and active workspace context. It’s designed to help folks like Gabe get from questions to insights faster, without needing to navigate dashboards or remember query syntax.

“SQL is one of those things where you always forget the syntax—some of these SQL queries can get kind of crazy,” he says. “It’s nice to be able to ask the question in English, have it understand your table schema, and get something useful back and adjust from there.”

Ask AI is part of a broader push to make ClickHouse more accessible not just to engineers, but to AI\-powered agents and tools as well. The recently launched [ClickHouse MCP (Model Context Protocol) server](https://clickhouse.com/blog/integrating-clickhouse-mcp) provides a secure, structured interface that allows LLMs and external agents to inspect schemas and run scoped, read\-only queries. For ClickHouse Cloud users, it lays the foundation for more intelligent, agent\-driven workflows in the future.

ClickHouse’s embedded dashboards are another reason Gabe keeps coming back. “I really like the interfaces to create graphs after you generate the data,” he says. While his team also uses Retool to create dashboards, he often finds ClickHouse easier to work with. “I tend to build it in ClickHouse, and then export the query to Retool,” he says. “It’s been seamless, going from asking a question to visualizing data.”

## The future of CI runs on ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/blacksmith-real-time-observability#the-future-of-ci-runs-on-clickhouse-cloud)

As Blacksmith grows, ClickHouse has become an important part of their workflow, powering fast, flexible analytics across their modern Postgres\-plus\-ClickHouse stack. With real\-time ingestion through the Postgres CDC connector and new features like Ask AI, ClickHouse Cloud gives the team what they need to move fast and stay focused on serving customers.

For teams trying to speed up CI without overhauling their workflows, Gabe has a simple message: “If you're suffering from slow CI and you're using GitHub Actions, try [Blacksmith](http://Blacksmith). You don't have to take my word for it. It’s literally a one\-line change. In 30 seconds, you can test it out for yourself and benchmark the difference.”

[Get started](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog) with ClickHouse Cloud today and receive $300 in credits. At the end of your 30\-day trial, continue with a pay\-as\-you\-go plan, or [contact us](/company/contact?loc=blog-cta-footer) to learn more about our volume\-based discounts. Visit our [pricing page](/pricing?loc=blog-cta-header) for details.
