---
source: blog
url: https://rotel.dev/
topic: from-otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scale-tracing-with-4x-greater-throughput
ch_version_introduced: '0.90'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

our benchmark we used a single ClickHouse data schema that is compatible with both the OpenTelemetry collector and Rotel. This [schema](https://clickhouse.com/docs/use-cases/observability/clickstack/ingesting-data/schemas) is recommended for use with ClickHouse and the ClickStack observability solution, for OTel metrics, logs, and traces.

The OTel data model relies heavily on key/value attributes to represent the unique properties of infrastructure and application environments that are important for analysis. In the original ClickHouse schema these fields were stored using the [Map column type](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/data-types/map), but a recent feature flag of the OTel collector updates this schema to use the new [JSON column type](https://clickhouse.com/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse). The JSON column type places a heavier CPU load on ClickHouse, yet allows more flexible and expressive queries. For our evaluation we chose to use the new JSON column type. You can find the full ClickHouse trace schema we used [here](https://gist.github.com/mheffner/dc332a61f3b9ba1d03fd7c7d5c1b7fbb).

A key part of our setup was the ClickHouse `Null` table engine, which let us remove disk I/O from the benchmark. The Null engine accepts writes but discards them immediately, so we could measure ingestion throughput and validate schema correctness without storage latency. After identifying the pipeline’s peak throughput, we can focus on scaling ClickHouse to handle real disk writes.

### Load generation [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#load-generation)

We were unable to push the necessary data volume required through the [telemetrygen](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/cmd/telemetrygen) CLI for the benchmark. Instead, we relied on an internal load generator we had built previously for testing OpenTelemetry and other telemetry pipelines. You can find the project in the **[otel\-loadgen](https://github.com/streamfold/otel-loadgen)** Github repo. It includes additional features for verifying end\-to\-end data delivery, which we’ll cover in a future post.

We generated approximately 100 spans per trace with varied attributes and metadata. As with any synthetic load test, the dataset won’t identically mirror real production traffic.

### Evaluation hardware [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#evaluation-hardware)

All benchmarks were performed on AWS EC2 instances. Each tier of the evaluation pipeline was run on a separate instance and all instances were created in the same availability zone.
