---
source: blog
url: https://rotel.dev/
topic: from-otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scale-tracing-with-4x-greater-throughput
ch_version_introduced: '0.90'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

translate into meaningful resource savings at large scale. Rotel has first\-class support for OpenTelemetry traces, metrics, and logs, and while this post focused on tracing, we plan to evaluate log and metric workloads as part of future benchmarking.

We are also interested in learning which capabilities matter most when operating at this level of volume. If you have ideas or want to share your own scaling challenges, you can join the community on [Discord](https://rotel.dev/discord) or contribute on [GitHub](https://github.com/streamfold/rotel).

### Further work [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#further-work)

Here are some topics we would like to explore more after working on this post:

#### Deep dive on Kafka reliability [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#deep-dive-on-kafka-reliability)

We only briefly touched on it in this post, but Rotel supports reliable delivery guarantees via end\-to\-end message acknowledgement, to ensure at\-least\-once delivery when streaming data from Kafka rather than relying on auto\-commit which can easily result in data\-loss . This support required a number of changes to the pipeline and rigorous testing to ensure Rotel does not drop data while also reducing duplicate deliveries. We would like to deep\-dive into what reliable delivery means, how we built it, and the verification tools we built to test it. Look for a follow up post on this.

#### Explore ClickHouse native protocol [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#explore-clickhouse-native-protocol)

Rotel’s ClickHouse integration is built on the `clickhouse-rs` Rust crate, which uses the RowBinary protocol over HTTP. The OpenTelemetry Collector uses the Go ClickHouse driver, which communicates using the native ClickHouse protocol. The native protocol is the same one used for internal ClickHouse to ClickHouse transfers, and benchmarks have shown it to be more than [20 percent faster than RowBinary](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient#insert-performance-of-common-input-formats). ClickHouse has also added support for Apache Arrow Flight, which uses the Arrow in\-memory format for efficient transport. We intend to evaluate moving from the row\-oriented RowBinary format to one of the column\-oriented formats, since they may provide another increase in throughput for Rotel. We plan to share our testing results in a future update.

#### Further exploring blocking tasks on tokio [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#further-exploring-blocking-tasks-on-tokio)
