---
source: blog
url: https://rotel.dev/
topic: from-otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scale-tracing-with-4x-greater-throughput
ch_version_introduced: '0.90'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 18
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

row\-oriented RowBinary format to one of the column\-oriented formats, since they may provide another increase in throughput for Rotel. We plan to share our testing results in a future update. #### Further exploring blocking tasks on tokio [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#further-exploring-blocking-tasks-on-tokio)

Blocking tasks like deserializing payloads, can have large impacts on Tokio performance. It wasn’t until we worked through this benchmark that we discovered how much, so we want to find other potential impacts of this. We already know that Rotel’s OTLP receiver performs expensive Protobuf deserialization inline during the async task processing of the connection. This is built into the `tonic` crate, so we would like to explore how best to split this out. From some early analysis with the perf tools we think there may be big wins here.

#### Reducing memory allocation impacts [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#reducing-memory-allocation-impacts)

While Rust does not have a garbage collector, at high volumes memory allocation and deallocation still have a significant performance impact. In Rotel we are regularly cycling through memory allocations for short\-lived objects as they move through the pipeline. Adopting a memory free list approach that allows us to skip the allocator for common reused buffers should cut performance overheads significantly. Of course, implementing it can be tricky and runs the risk of ballooning your memory usage if you’re not careful. This is another area where we may need to dive into the `tonic` crate to make necessary changes.

*We’d like to thank Sujay Jayakar, Ben Sigelman, Rick Branson, Vlad Seliverstov, Rory Crispin and Achille Roussel for reviewing early drafts of this post.*

## Addendum [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#addendum)

### Considered projects [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#considered-projects)

While compiling these benchmarks we wanted to include other data planes that offered OpenTelemetry support, but found them incompatible with the benchmark. We chose distributed tracing for this evaluation because it is a strong driver for OTel adoption and data volumes can grow quickly at scale. However, logging and metrics are more classic monitoring telemetry, so many tools still have limited tracing support. While we didn’t have the capacity to include them in this post, we hope to explore logging and metrics benchmarks in the future.

#### Vector [\#](/blog/otel-to-rotel-petabyte-scaling-tracing-4x-greater-throughput#vector)
