---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/company/events/v23-3-release-webinar
topic: clickhouse-release-23-2
ch_version_introduced: '23.2'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

### What is Apache Iceberg? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-02#what-is-apache-iceberg) Originally developed by Netflix, Apache Iceberg is a high\-performance table format that is independent of any specific SQL engine \- allowing it to be queried by any SQL engine, including now ClickHouse!

This table format is increasingly popular and has rapidly become an industry standard for managing data in data lakes. While Parquet has established itself as the data file format of choice for data lakes, tables would typically be represented as a set of files located in a bucket or folder. This is typically sufficient for ad\-hoc querying but makes managing large datasets cumbersome and means table abstractions by tools such as ClickHouse were loosely established at best, with no support for schema evolution or write consistency. Most importantly for ClickHouse, this approach would rely on file listing operations \- potentially expensive on object stores such as s3\. Filtering of data requires all data to be opened and read, other than limited abilities to restrict files by using glob patterns on a naming schema.

Iceberg aims to address these challenges by bringing SQL table\-like functionality to files in a data lake in an open and accessible manner. Specifically, Iceberg provides:

- Support for schema evolution to track changes to a table over time
- Ability to create snapshots of data that define a specific version. These versions can be queried, allowing users to "time travel" between generations.
- Support for rolling back to prior versions of data quickly
- Automatic partitioning of files to assist with filtering \- historically, users would need to do this error\-prone task by hand and maintain it across updates.
- Metadata that query engines can use to provide advanced planning and filtering.

These table capabilities are provided by manifest files. These manifests maintain a history of the underlying data files with a complete description of their schema, partitioning, and file information. This abstraction allows for the support of immutable snapshots, organized efficiently in a hierarchical structure that tracks all changes in a table over time.

Importantly, the underlying file formats do not change, with Apache Iceberg supporting Parquet, ORC, and Avro.

### ClickHouse Support [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-02#clickhouse-support)
