---
source: blog
url: https://blog.devgenius.io/why-is-snowflake-so-expensive-92b67203945
topic: trillabit-utilizes-the-power-of-clickhouse-for-fast-scalable-results-within-their-self-service-search-driven-analytics-offering
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

right’ i.e. build out the data warehouse with star schema models and dimension fact tables and move data to these structures. These scenarios require more of a data warehouse solution than a search engine. ### The Goal [\#](/blog/trillabit-utilizes-the-power-of-clickhouse-for-fast-scalable-results-within-their-self-service-search-driven-analytics-offering#the-goal)

The goal was to start with something that could be managed at a low cost and could be implemented within our environment for hands\-on experience and understanding. We wanted to understand the technology in some detail before handing it off to a managed service.

Snowflake being the popular contender was simply too expensive and didn’t allow for that full on\-prem implementation. See: [Why is Snowflake so expensive?](https://blog.devgenius.io/why-is-snowflake-so-expensive-92b67203945) 

ClickHouse was an excellent alternative, with fast [performance](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/about-us/performance/#:~:text=Under%20the%20same%20conditions%2C%20ClickHouse,of%20100%20queries%20per%20second.) and low cost using the [open source community version](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse). Setting up ClickHouse on\-premise / self\-managed (AWS), allowed us to get fast, hands\-on experience to best understand how it fit into our environment.

Here are some of the preferred features we found while digging in:

**Integration Engines**

ClickHouse allows ways to make your life so much easier when it comes to data ingestion. The table engine features were fantastic for connecting to data where it sat in different stores and forms.

The [table engines for integrations](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/integrations/) are great features that allow for direct connections to other relational stores like MySQL or Postgres. Simply connect and run! The TrillaBit product runs on metadata that is managed in relational stores. The ability to connect to this without moving data allows for lookups, joins, and views within ClickHouse itself and has huge benefits for speed of integration.

TrillaBit has streaming endpoints for clients to post fast network and IoT streaming data. Behind that, is Kafka. The [Kafka table engine](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/kafka/kafka-table-engine) worked great for connecting and using data through ClickHouse efficiently.

Although currently used to a lesser extent by TrillaBit, ClickHouse does allow for direct S3 integration through the [S3 table engine](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/integrations/s3/) for loading \& offloading.

**Data Management Engines**
