---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates
ch_version_introduced: '1.2'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

[locks](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/r3.1.2/recipes.html#sc_recipes_Locks) in Keeper. Meaning that these operations can block each other and need to wait until the currently executed operation is finished. Zero\-copy replication does not sufficiently address the challenges with ReplicatedMergeTree on top of shared object storage:

- Metadata is still coupled with servers: metadata storage is not separated from compute. Zero\-copy replication still requires a local disk on each server for storing the metadata about parts. Local disks are additional points of failure with reliability depending on the number of replicas, which is tied to compute overhead for high availability.
- Durability of zero\-copy replication depends on guarantees of 3 components: object storage, Keeper, and local storage. This number of components adds complexity and overhead as this stack was built on top of existing components and not reworked as a cloud\-native solution.
- This is still designed for a small number of servers: metadata is updated using the same replication model designed initially for shared\-nothing cluster architectures with a small number of replica servers. A high number of servers creates too much contention on the replication log and creates a high overhead on locks and inter\-server communication. Additionally, there is a lot of complexity in the code implementing the replication and cloning of data from one replica to another. And it is impossible to make atomic commits for all replicas as metadata is changed independently.

## SharedMergeTree for cloud\-native data processing [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates#sharedmergetree-for-cloud-native-data-processing)

We decided (and [planned](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/44767) from the beginning) to implement a new table engine from scratch for ClickHouse Cloud called SharedMergeTree – designed to work on top of a shared storage. The SharedMergeTree is the cloud\-native way for us to (1\) make the MergeTree code more straightforward and maintainable, (2\) to [support](changes) not only vertical but also horizontal auto\-scaling of servers, and (3\) to enable future features and improvements for our Cloud users, like higher consistency guarantees, better durability, point\-in\-time restores, time\-travel through data, and more.
