---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates
ch_version_introduced: '1.2'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

of servers. The throughput of background merges scales with the number of servers as long as Keeper has enough resources. The same is true for [mutations](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter#mutations) which are implemented via explicitly triggered and (by [default](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#mutations_sync)) asynchronously executed merges.

This has positive implications for other new features in ClickHouse, like [lightweight updates](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates#introducing-lightweight-updates-powered-by-sharedmergetree), which get a performance boost from the SharedMergeTree. Similarly, engine\-specific [data transformations](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/developer/cascading-materialized-views) (aggregations for [AggregatingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/aggregatingmergetree), deduplication for [ReplacingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree), etc.) benefit from the better merge throughput of the SharedMergeTree. These transformations are incrementally applied during background part merges. To ensure correct query results with potentially unmerged parts, users need to merge the unmerged data at query time by utilising the [FINAL](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/from#final-modifier) modifier or using explicit GROUP BY clauses with aggregations. In both cases, the execution speed of these queries benefits from better merge throughput. Because then the queries have less query\-time data merge work to do.

## The new ClickHouse Cloud default table engine [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates#the-new-clickhouse-cloud-default-table-engine)

The SharedMergeTree table engine is now generally available as the default table engine in ClickHouse Cloud for new Development tier services. Please reach out to us if you would like to create a new Production tier service with the SharedMergeTree table engine.

All table engines from the MergeTree family that are [supported](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/whats-new/cloud-compatibility#database-and-table-engines) by ClickHouse Cloud are automatically based on the SharedMergeTree. For example, when you create a [ReplacingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree) table, ClickHouse Cloud will automatically create a SharedReplacingMergeTree table under the hood:

```
CREATE TABLE T (id UInt64, v String)
ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree
ORDER BY (id);

SELECT engine
FROM system.tables
WHERE name = 'T';

┌─engine───────────────────┐
│ SharedReplacingMergeTree │
└──────────────────────────┘

```

Note that existing services will be migrated from ReplicatedMergeTree to the SharedMergeTree engine overtime. Please reach out to the ClickHouse Support team if you'd like to discuss this.

Also note that the current implementation of SharedMergeTree does not yet have support for more advanced capabilities present in ReplicatedMergeTree, such as [deduplication of async inserts](https://clickhouse.com/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#inserts-are-idempotent) and encryption at rest, but this support is planned for future versions.

## SharedMergeTree in action [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates#sharedmergetree-in-action)

In this section, we are going to demonstrate the seamless ingest performance scaling capabilities of the SharedMergeTree. We will explore the performance scaling of SELECT queries in another blog.

### Ingest scenarios [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates#ingest-scenarios)
