---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates
ch_version_introduced: '1.2'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 19
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

ClickHouse delivers updated results immediately, while using less resources. Furthermore, this makes updates easier to use for ClickHouse users, who can send updates without having to think about how to batch them. #### Synergy with the SharedMergeTree [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates#synergy-with-the-sharedmergetree)

From the user's perspective, modifications from lightweight updates will occur instantly, but users will experience slightly reduced SELECT query performance until updates are materialized because the updates are executed at query time in memory on the streamed rows. As updates are materialized as part of merge operations in the background, the impact on query latency goes away. The SharedMergeTree table engine comes with [improved throughput and scalability of background merges and mutations](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates#improved-throughput-and-scalability-of-background-merges-and-mutations), and as a result, mutations complete faster, and SELECT queries after lightweight updates return to full speed sooner.

#### What’s next [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates#whats-next)

The mechanics of lightweight updates that we described above are just the first step. We are already planning additional phases of implementation to improve the performance of lightweight updates further and eliminate current [limitations](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/developer/lightweght-update).

## Summary [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates#summary)

In this blog post, we have explored the mechanics of the new ClickHouse Cloud SharedMergeTree table engine. We explained why it was necessary to introduce a new table engine natively supporting the ClickHouse Cloud architecture, where vertically and horizontally scalable compute nodes are separated from the data stored in virtually limitless shared object storage. The SharedMergeTree enables seamless and virtually limitless scaling of the compute layer on top of the storage. The throughput of inserts and background merges can be easily scaled, which benefits other features in ClickHouse, such as lightweight updates and engine\-specific data transformations. Additionally, the SharedMergeTree provides stronger durability for inserts and more lightweight strong consistency for select queries. Finally, it opens the door to new cloud\-native capabilities and improvements. We demonstrated the engine’s efficiency with a benchmark and described a new feature boosted by the SharedMergeTree, called Lightweight Updates.

We are looking forward to seeing this new default table engine in action to boost the performance of your ClickHouse Cloud use cases.

[Get started](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog) with ClickHouse Cloud today and receive $300 in credits. At the end of your 30\-day trial, continue with a pay\-as\-you\-go plan, or [contact us](/company/contact?loc=blog-cta-footer) to learn more about our volume\-based discounts. Visit our [pricing page](/pricing?loc=blog-cta-header) for details.
