---
source: blog
url: https://localhost:8123>
topic: introducing-clickstack-embedded-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

Adding a [Node.js](http://node.js) dependency to ClickHouse is a non\-starter 2. Files must be embedded in the binary, not lingering somewhere in the file system 3. ClickStack should not significantly inflate the binary size ### The Next.js parts [\#](/blog/clickstack-embedded-clickhouse#the-nextjs-parts)

The UI that powers ClickStack, HyperDX, is a Next.js application. For those familiar, Next.js is a full\-stack framework that renders pages on the server before serving, meaning that both the frontend and the backend are bundled into an application. It allows you to serve both static pages and dynamic HTML. However, serving dynamic pages without introducing a Node.js dependency would mean rewriting a lot of the Next.js internals. This meant serving dynamic pages was off the table. Luckily, ClickStack heavily uses static pages. There is still React running in the browser, but very little dynamic server\-side rendering ever occurs.

ClickHouse has some existing HTML pages, such as `play.html` for running queries in a WebUI, and `dashboards.html` for some extremely helpful dashboards to see the health of your ClickHouse instance. The `dashboards.html` page even loads some JavaScript!

However, both are a far cry from the complexity of serving a webpack output from a modern full\-featured website like ClickStack. I'll get to that complexity in the [Bundling into ClickHouse](/blog/clickstack-embedded-clickhouse#bundling-into-clickhouse) section, but the existing web pages meant we could add an additional handler with just a little custom functionality.

### ClickStack existing variations and connecting to ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickstack-embedded-clickhouse#clickstack-existing-variations-and-connecting-to-clickhouse)

ClickStack already has a few dependencies on which it relies for core functionality. The standard application includes Next.js, Express, and MongoDB. Express and MongoDB are primarily used for the CRUD persistence layer for saved searches, dashboards, and sources. The Express server also serves as a proxy for ClickHouse, while also handling authentication to ensure DB credentials are not leaked to the frontend. It was safe to assume that the Express backend, MongoDB, and a proxy layer would not be available when embedding ClickStack in ClickHouse.

However, there already existed a [demo site](http://play-clickstack.clickhouse.com) with most capabilities we needed; connections stored in session storage, sources persisted in local storage, and ability to query ClickHouse directly without a proxy layer. The only modifications needed would be to adjust all links with the prefix "/clickstack". With this mechanism, we could attempt bundling into ClickHouse.
