---
source: blog
url: https://localhost:8123>
topic: introducing-clickstack-embedded-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

sources persisted in local storage, and ability to query ClickHouse directly without a proxy layer. The only modifications needed would be to adjust all links with the prefix "/clickstack". With this mechanism, we could attempt bundling into ClickHouse.

> We also decided to remove `pyodide`, a WASM Python runtime for the browser used for ClickStack's "Event Patterns" feature, purely because its size would inflate the ClickHouse binary size by more than we are comfortable with.

### Bundling into ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickstack-embedded-clickhouse#bundling-into-clickhouse)

ClickHouse uses many 3rd\-party libraries and manages them via git submodules. This means that updating a version of a dependency is as simple as checking out a specific commit and rerunning the ClickHouse build. This provides us with the basic foundation to ensure that upgrading to a newer ClickStack version is potentially easy if we can provide it as a usable sub\-module.

Building ClickHouse requires many dependent tools such as `cmake`, `ccache`, `ninja`, and many more. But NOT Node.js. For the purpose of reducing friction in local development as well as build times, this meant adding a new dependency with rather large implications like [node.js](http://node.js) was not an option. A good alternative is to generate a static bundle upon release and included directly in a git submodule. As we didn't want to clutter the ClickStack repo, this meant creating a new repo that can reproducibly check out a ClickStack version, build the static output, and update the bundle \- ideally all automated upon the release of a new ClickStack version.

But we still have an issue \- the files are now present in a ClickHouse build, but how can they be embedded?

C\+\+ does have an \#embed macro that allows embedding known files as raw bytes rather than as a file. Unfortunately, a feature of [Next.js](http://next.js) is that it outputs seemingly randomized file names, and lots of them. To handle this, we generate a C\+\+ file on the fly using some `cmake` magic. It does the following:

1. Creates a new file with some static definitions, specifically a struct definition that includes the file name, bytes, and MIME type
2. Find all files in contrib/clickstack/out
3. Sort by name
4. For each file
	1. Gzip the file (to reduce binary size \+ bytes shipped to browser)
	2. Generate an entry in an array
