---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/group-by.md)#
topic: group-by-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

# GROUP BY Clause \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Statements](/docs/sql-reference/statements)- [SELECT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select)- GROUP BY
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/group-by.md)# GROUP BY Clause

`GROUP BY` clause switches the `SELECT` query into an aggregation mode, which works as follows:

- `GROUP BY` clause contains a list of expressions (or a single expression, which is considered to be the list of length one). This list acts as a "grouping key", while each individual expression will be referred to as a "key expression".
- All the expressions in the [SELECT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select), [HAVING](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/having), and [ORDER BY](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/order-by) clauses **must** be calculated based on key expressions **or** on [aggregate functions](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions) over non\-key expressions (including plain columns). In other words, each column selected from the table must be used either in a key expression or inside an aggregate function, but not both.
- Result of aggregating `SELECT` query will contain as many rows as there were unique values of "grouping key" in source table. Usually, this significantly reduces the row count, often by orders of magnitude, but not necessarily: row count stays the same if all "grouping key" values were distinct.

When you want to group data in the table by column numbers instead of column names, enable the setting [enable\_positional\_arguments](/docs/operations/settings/settings#enable_positional_arguments).

NoteThere's an additional way to run aggregation over a table. If a query contains table columns only inside aggregate functions, the `GROUP BY clause` can be omitted, and aggregation by an empty set of keys is assumed. Such queries always return exactly one row.

## NULL Processing[​](#null-processing "Direct link to NULL Processing")

For grouping, ClickHouse interprets [NULL](/docs/sql-reference/syntax#null) as a value, and `NULL==NULL`. It differs from `NULL` processing in most other contexts.

Here's an example to show what this means.

Assume you have this table:

```
┌─x─┬────y─┐
│ 1 │    2 │
│ 2 │ ᴺᵁᴸᴸ │
│ 3 │    2 │
│ 3 │    3 │
│ 3 │ ᴺᵁᴸᴸ │
└───┴──────┘

```

The query `SELECT sum(x), y FROM t_null_big GROUP BY y` results in:

```
┌─sum(x)─┬────y─┐
│      4 │    2 │
│      3 │    3 │
│      5 │ ᴺᵁᴸᴸ │
└────────┴──────┘

```

You can see that `GROUP BY` for `y = NULL` summed up `x`, as if `NULL` is this value.
