---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/group-by.md)#
topic: group-by-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

values (zeros or empty lines), and columns of aggregate functions with the values calculated across all the rows (the "total" values). This extra row is only produced in `JSON*`, `TabSeparated*`, and `Pretty*` formats, separately from the other rows:

- In `XML` and `JSON*` formats, this row is output as a separate 'totals' field.
- In `TabSeparated*`, `CSV*` and `Vertical` formats, the row comes after the main result, preceded by an empty row (after the other data).
- In `Pretty*` formats, the row is output as a separate table after the main result.
- In `Template` format, the row is output according to specified template.
- In the other formats it is not available.

Notetotals is output in the results of `SELECT` queries, and is not output in `INSERT INTO ... SELECT`.

`WITH TOTALS` can be run in different ways when [HAVING](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/having) is present. The behavior depends on the `totals_mode` setting.

### Configuring Totals Processing[​](#configuring-totals-processing "Direct link to Configuring Totals Processing")

By default, `totals_mode = 'before_having'`. In this case, 'totals' is calculated across all rows, including the ones that do not pass through HAVING and `max_rows_to_group_by`.

The other alternatives include only the rows that pass through HAVING in 'totals', and behave differently with the setting `max_rows_to_group_by` and `group_by_overflow_mode = 'any'`.

`after_having_exclusive` – Don't include rows that didn't pass through `max_rows_to_group_by`. In other words, 'totals' will have less than or the same number of rows as it would if `max_rows_to_group_by` were omitted.

`after_having_inclusive` – Include all the rows that didn't pass through 'max\_rows\_to\_group\_by' in 'totals'. In other words, 'totals' will have more than or the same number of rows as it would if `max_rows_to_group_by` were omitted.

`after_having_auto` – Count the number of rows that passed through HAVING. If it is more than a certain amount (by default, 50%), include all the rows that didn't pass through 'max\_rows\_to\_group\_by' in 'totals'. Otherwise, do not include them.

`totals_auto_threshold` – By default, 0\.5\. The coefficient for `after_having_auto`.

If `max_rows_to_group_by` and `group_by_overflow_mode = 'any'` are not used, all variations of `after_having` are the same, and you can use any of them (for example, `after_having_auto`).

You can use `WITH TOTALS` in subqueries, including subqueries in the [JOIN](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/join) clause (in this case, the respective total values are combined).

## GROUP BY ALL[​](#group-by-all "Direct link to GROUP BY ALL")
