---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/group-by.md)#
topic: group-by-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

specifying several aggregation key sets (grouping sets). Aggregation is performed separately for each grouping set, and after that, all results are combined. If a column is not presented in a grouping set, it's filled with a default value.

In other words, modifiers described above can be represented via `GROUPING SETS`.
Despite the fact that queries with `ROLLUP`, `CUBE` and `GROUPING SETS` modifiers are syntactically equal, they may perform differently.
When `GROUPING SETS` try to execute everything in parallel, `ROLLUP` and `CUBE` are executing the final merging of the aggregates in a single thread.

In the situation when source columns contain default values, it might be hard to distinguish if a row is a part of the aggregation which uses those columns as keys or not.
To solve this problem `GROUPING` function must be used.

**Example**

The following two queries are equivalent.

```
-- Query 1
SELECT year, month, day, count(*) FROM t GROUP BY year, month, day WITH ROLLUP;

-- Query 2
SELECT year, month, day, count(*) FROM t GROUP BY
GROUPING SETS
(
    (year, month, day),
    (year, month),
    (year),
    ()
);

```

**See also**

- [group\_by\_use\_nulls](/docs/operations/settings/settings#group_by_use_nulls) setting for SQL standard compatibility.

## Implementation Details[​](#implementation-details "Direct link to Implementation Details")

Aggregation is one of the most important features of a column\-oriented DBMS, and thus it's implementation is one of the most heavily optimized parts of ClickHouse. By default, aggregation is done in memory using a hash\-table. It has 40\+ specializations that are chosen automatically depending on "grouping key" data types.

### GROUP BY Optimization Depending on Table Sorting Key[​](#group-by-optimization-depending-on-table-sorting-key "Direct link to GROUP BY Optimization Depending on Table Sorting Key")

The aggregation can be performed more effectively, if a table is sorted by some key, and `GROUP BY` expression contains at least prefix of sorting key or injective functions. In this case when a new key is read from table, the in\-between result of aggregation can be finalized and sent to client. This behaviour is switched on by the [optimize\_aggregation\_in\_order](/docs/operations/settings/settings#optimize_aggregation_in_order) setting. Such optimization reduces memory usage during aggregation, but in some cases may slow down the query execution.

### GROUP BY in External Memory[​](#group-by-in-external-memory "Direct link to GROUP BY in External Memory")
