---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/80247))**
topic: optimizing-clickhouse-for-intel-s-ultra-high-core-count-processors
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

makes profiling on ultra\-high core count servers more scalable. Thread\-local storage can eliminate lock contention by removing the need for shared state. Global synchronization becomes unnecessary if threads maintain their own state. ## **Bottleneck 2: Memory management** [\#](/blog/optimizing-clickhouse-intel-high-core-count-cpu#bottleneck-2-memory-management)

Memory optimization on ultra\-high core count systems differs a lot from single\-threaded memory management. Memory allocators themselves become contention points, memory bandwidth is divided across more cores, and allocation patterns that work fine on small systems can create cascading performance problems at scale. It is crucial to be mindful of how much memory is allocated and how memory is used.

This class of optimizations involves the allocator’s behavior, reducing pressure on memory bandwidth, and sometimes completely rethinking algorithms to eliminate memory\-intensive operations altogether.

### **Optimization 2\.1: Jemalloc Memory Reuse Optimization ([PR \#80245](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/80245))** [\#](/blog/optimizing-clickhouse-intel-high-core-count-cpu#optimization-21-jemalloc-memory-reuse-optimization-pr-80245)

This optimization is motivated by high page fault rates and excessive resident memory usage which we observed for certain aggregation queries on ultra\-high core count systems.

**Understanding two\-level hash tables in ClickHouse**

Aggregation in ClickHouse uses different hash tables, depending on the data type, data distribution and data size. Large aggregation states are maintained in ephemeral hash tables.

- The **1st level** consists of 256 static buckets, each pointing to a 2nd level hash table.
- **2nd level** hash tables grow independently of each other.

**Memory reuse for two\-level hash tables**

At the end of an aggregation query, all hash tables used by the query are deallocated. In particular, the 256 sub\-hash tables are deallocated and their memory is merged into larger free memory blocks.

jemalloc (as ClickHouse’s memory allocator) unfortunately prevented the reuse of merged memory blocks for future smaller allocations. This is because by default, only memory from blocks up to 64x larger than the requested size can be reused. This issue in jemalloc is very subtle but critical on ultra\-high core count systems.

Based on [jemalloc issue \#2842](https://github.com/jemalloc/jemalloc/pull/2842), we noticed a fundamental problem with jemalloc’s memory reuse for the irregularly\-sized allocations typical in two\-level hash tables:
