---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/80247))**
topic: optimizing-clickhouse-for-intel-s-ultra-high-core-count-processors
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

result. In the second phase, all partial results must be merged. If the merge phase is not properly parallelized, it becomes a bottleneck. More threads can actually make this issue worse by creating more partial results to merge.

Solving this issue requires careful algorithm design, smart data structure choices, and a deep understanding how hash tables behave under different load patterns. The goal is to eliminate the serial merge phase and enable linear scaling even for the most complex aggregation queries.

### **Optimization 3\.1: Hash Table Conversion ([PR \#50748](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/50748))** [\#](/blog/optimizing-clickhouse-intel-high-core-count-cpu#optimization-31-hash-table-conversion-pr-50748)

ClickBench query Q5 showed a severe performance degradation as the core count increased from 80 to 112 threads. Our pipeline analysis revealed serial processing in the hash table conversion.

**Understanding hash tables in ClickHouse**

ClickHouse uses two types of hash tables for hash aggregation:

1. **Single\-level hash tables**: This is a flat hash table that is suitable (\= faster) for smaller datasets.
2. **Two\-level hash tables**: This is a hierarchical hash table with 256 buckets. Two\-level hash tables are more amendable to large datasets.

The database chooses the right hash table type based on the size of the processed data: Once a single\-level hash table reaches a certain threshold during aggregation, it is automatically converted to a two\-level hash table. The code to merge hash tables of different types was serialized.

**The serial bottleneck**

When merging hash tables from different threads,

- **single\-level hash tables** were serially merged in a pair\-wise manner, e.g. ht1 / ht2 → result, then result / ht3, etc.
- **two\-level hash tables** are merged one\-by\-one as well but the merge is parallelized across buckets.

In the case of mixed single/two\-level hash tables, the single\-level hash tables had to be converted to two\-level hash tables first (this was a serial process). Once the was done, the resulting two\-level hash tables could be merged in parallel.

With Q5, increasing the number of threads from 80 to 112 meant that each thread processes less data. With 80 threads, all hash tables were two\-level. With 112 threads, the aggregation ended up with the mixed scenario: some hash tables remained single\-level while others became two\-level. This caused serialization \- all single\-level hash tables had to be converted to two\-level before parallel merging could take place.
