---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/best-practices/query-optimization.md)#
topic: guide-for-query-optimization-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

# Guide for query optimization \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Performance and optimizations](/docs/operations/overview)- Query optimization
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/best-practices/query-optimization.md)# A simple guide for query optimization

This section aims to illustrate through common scenarios how to use different performance and optimization techniques, such as [analyzer](/docs/operations/analyzer), [query profiling](/docs/operations/optimizing-performance/sampling-query-profiler) or [avoid nullable Columns](/docs/optimize/avoid-nullable-columns), in order to improve your ClickHouse query performances.

## Understand query performance[​](#understand-query-performance "Direct link to Understand query performance")

The best moment to think about performance optimization is when you're setting up your [data schema](/docs/data-modeling/schema-design) before ingesting data into ClickHouse for the first time. 

But let's be honest; it is difficult to predict how much your data will grow or what types of queries will be executed. 

If you have an existing deployment with a few queries that you want to improve, the first step is understanding how those queries perform and why some execute in a few milliseconds while others take longer.

ClickHouse has a rich set of tools to help you understand how your query is getting executed and the resources consumed to perform the execution. 

In this section, we will look at those tools and how to use them. 

## General considerations[​](#general-considerations "Direct link to General considerations")

To understand query performance, let's look at what happens in ClickHouse when a query is executed. 

The following part is deliberately simplified and takes some shortcuts; the idea here isn't to drown you with details but to get you up to speed with the basic concepts. For more information you can read about [query analyzer](/docs/operations/analyzer). 

From a very high\-level standpoint, when ClickHouse executes a query, the following happens: 

- **Query parsing and analysis**

The query is parsed and analyzed, and a generic query execution plan is created. 

- **Query optimization**

The query execution plan is optimized, unnecessary data is pruned, and a query pipeline is built from the query plan. 

- **Query pipeline execution**

The data is read and processed in parallel. This is the stage where ClickHouse actually executes the query operations such as filtering, aggregations, and sorting. 

- **Final processing**

The results are merged, sorted, and formatted into a final result before being sent to the client.
