---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/guides/best-practices/query-optimization.md)#
topic: guide-for-query-optimization-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

than in most traditional database systems. In those systems, primary keys enforce uniqueness and data integrity. Any attempt to insert duplicate primary key values is rejected, and a B\-tree or hash\-based index is usually created for fast lookup.

In ClickHouse, the primary key's [objective](/docs/guides/best-practices/sparse-primary-indexes#a-table-with-a-primary-key) is different; it doesn't enforce uniqueness or help with data integrity. Instead, it is designed to optimize query performance. The primary key defines the order in which the data is stored on disk and is implemented as a sparse index that stores pointers to the first row of each granule.

> Granules in ClickHouse are the smallest units of data read during query execution. They contain up to a fixed number of rows, determined by index\_granularity, with a default value of 8192 rows. Granules are stored contiguously and sorted by the primary key.

Selecting a good set of primary keys is important for performance, and it's actually common to store the same data in different tables and use different sets of primary keys to speed up a specific set of queries. 

Other options supported by ClickHouse, such as Projection or Materialized view, allow you to use a different set of primary keys on the same data. The second part of this blog series will cover this in more detail. 

### Choose primary keys[​](#choose-primary-keys "Direct link to Choose primary keys")

Choosing the correct set of primary keys is a complex topic, and it might require trade\-offs and experiments to find the best combination. 

For now, we're going to follow these simple practices: 

- Use fields that are used to filter in most queries
- Choose columns with lower cardinality first
- Consider a time\-based component in your primary key, as filtering by time on a timestamp dataset is pretty common.

In our case, we will experiment with the following primary keys: `passenger_count`, `pickup_datetime`, and `dropoff_datetime`. 

The cardinality for passenger\_count is small (24 unique values) and used in our slow queries. We also add timestamp fields (`pickup_datetime` and `dropoff_datetime`) as they can be filtered often.

Create a new table with the primary keys and re\-ingest the data.
