---
source: blog
url: https://discover.clickhouse.com/newsletter.html
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-october-2022-a-cloud-has-arrived
ch_version_introduced: '3.776'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

some googling and in an answer to an old StackOverflow question you read about [max\_threads](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/#settings-max_threads) and how it can be used to speed everything up. And yet, as so often in life and technology, it’s not that simple!

By default, ClickHouse will try to determine the correct number of threads based on the number of available CPU cores. You can check what it is set to using `SELECT getSetting('max_threads')`. For example, on my MacBook Pro it returns 10, which is the number of cores in an Apple M1 chip (yes, ClickHouse works on ARM!).

You can set it to use more threads, but it won’t always work well. For example, try this (after you create the right table structure [see here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime/#creating-a-table)):

```
INSERT INTO ontime SELECT *
FROM s3('https://clickhouse-public-datasets.s3.amazonaws.com/ontime/csv_by_year/*.csv.gz', CSVWithNames)
SETTINGS max_threads = 100

```

Unless you have a really big machine, it will not complete – and use a lot of memory along the way. Effectively, every one of the 100 threads is a separate insert sub\-query and requires its own memory to retrieve and write data.

So should you set `max_threads = 1`? Well, maybe \- for me, the query above will insert data at about 120k rows per second when limited to a single thread. Without `max_threads` it will insert 320k rows per second. However, the optimal insert speed for me is with 4 threads \- 428k rows per second, some 33% faster than with thread autodetection. Sometimes it pays to experiment.

Similarly, when reading data, more threads are not always better. Yes, more threads mean there are more CPU cycles available to a query. However, it also means there are more separate states that all need to be merged back together before the result can be returned. Most importantly, many threads per query will reduce the number of queries per second that can be run.

For example, using the [UK Property Price Paid dataset](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/uk-price-paid), we can check what the most popular street names are using:

```
SELECT count(), street FROM uk_price_paid
GROUP BY street ORDER BY count() DESC

```
