---
source: blog
url: https://discover.clickhouse.com/newsletter.html
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-october-2022-a-cloud-has-arrived
ch_version_introduced: '3.776'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

that can be run. For example, using the [UK Property Price Paid dataset](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/uk-price-paid), we can check what the most popular street names are using: ``` SELECT count(), street FROM uk_price_paid GROUP BY street ORDER BY count() DESC ```

The top 3: High Street, Station Road, London Road. In the next 7, there are Church Road, Church Street, and Church Lane \- maybe not surprising in a monarchy where the King is both Head of State and Head of the Church.

This above query takes 0\.2 seconds on my machine. If I set `max_threads = 1` it takes 0\.5 seconds. So more threads are better, right?

In this case, yes \- except if I want to run this query many times concurrently. I can execute 10 queries concurrently 10 times (100 queries in total) with `clickhouse-benchmark`:

```
clickhouse-benchmark -c 10 -i 100 -q "<query>”

```

On my machine, it takes about 27 seconds to run all 100 queries, just under 4 queries a second (`QPS: 3.776` according to the result).

With `max_threads = 1` it takes about 10 seconds, or 13 queries per second (`QPS: 13.122`). Three times higher query throughput! And all we had to do was change the number of threads \- but lower, not higher. Generally, if you expect a lot of concurrent queries you should consider explicitly lowering the thread count per query.

## Reading Corner [\#](/blog/newsletter_2022_october#reading-corner)

What we’ve been reading:

- [ClickHouse Cloud is now in Public Beta](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-cloud-public-beta) The launch blog post for the new and only official ClickHouse managed service by us, the creators of ClickHouse.
- [Getting Data Into ClickHouse \- Part 3 \- Using S3](https://clickhouse.com/blog/getting-data-into-clickhouse-part-3-s3) Part 3 of a series on how to get data into ClickHouse. Check out Parts 1 and 2 ([here](https://clickhouse.com/blog/getting-data-into-clickhouse-part-1) and [here](https://clickhouse.com/blog/getting-data-into-clickhouse-part-2-json)) as well.
- [Visualizing Data with ClickHouse \- Part 1 \- Grafana](https://clickhouse.com/blog/visualizing-data-with-grafana) First in a series on visualizing data with ClickHouse. We start with Grafana and will follow with posts on Superset and Metabase.

Thanks for reading, we’ll see you next month. And please test ClickHouse Cloud!

The ClickHouse Team

Share this postCopy URLShare on Y CombinatorShare on TwitterShare on BlueSkyShare on FacebookShare on LinkedIn### Subscribe to our newsletter

Stay informed on feature releases, product roadmap, support, and cloud offerings!Loading form...## Recent posts
