---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: clickhouse-spotlight-san-tran
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

be a “blocker”. The way that San thinks of his area of work and his proactive efforts to make it resonate with the team is a great example of how we can empower others through our own work.

> When I work with others or asked to provide advice on security topics, I often go the extra mile in doing research or experimenting in my local lab to make sure I fully understand the problem statement and the options we have. By giving clear explanations about vulnerabilities \& risks through threat modeling and the different solutions to address these issues, It changes the narrative that is often being misunderstood from "This is what you must do" to "Let's discuss and find the best approach to solve this problem".

---

## What do you do at CH and how do you like to work with others across a distributed team? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-spotlight-san-tran#what-do-you-do-at-ch-and-how-do-you-like-to-work-with-others-across-a-distributed-team)

I'm an Application Security Engineer at ClickHouse and I love sharing my passion about security with others. My daily tasks can vary due to the nature of my work, sometimes I am involved in big async discussions over github issues, slack, google doc about product features and security, other times, I would put my head down and focus on deploying or building security tools to protect our organisation. Being one of the only two people in the company who live in a completely different timezone from the rest has its challenges at first but with the way we work at ClickHouse, I have always felt included. Most important meetings are recorded and can easily be watched at my own convenience and the flexible working hours mean I can spend more time with my kids when they are back from school or on holiday and get more work done after they go to bed early in the night. Working at ClickHouse is not about 9 to 5, it is about having a good work life balance, managing your own time and getting sh\*\* done.

## What do you do outside of ClickHouse: any passions or hobbies? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-spotlight-san-tran#what-do-you-do-outside-of-clickhouse-any-passions-or-hobbies)
