---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: clickhouse-spotlight-san-tran
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

at ClickHouse is not about 9 to 5, it is about having a good work life balance, managing your own time and getting sh\*\* done. ## What do you do outside of ClickHouse: any passions or hobbies? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-spotlight-san-tran#what-do-you-do-outside-of-clickhouse-any-passions-or-hobbies)

Being a dad of two young boys, I enjoy spending most of my time with them when I'm not working. It is fun to watch my kid learning to program on embedded devices, doing fun science experiments or going for a bush walk. In other words, parenting is my hobby at the moment and I absolutely enjoy it.

## What do you care most about when working with other team members? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-spotlight-san-tran#what-do-you-care-most-about-when-working-with-other-team-members)

First and foremost, I don't want to be a blocker. Depending on the organisation and the people you work with, Security can be a tough topic. Luckily for me, everyone at ClickHouse takes security very seriously and it doesn't take any effort to convince them how to make things more secure. It's not the "We can't do that" mentality I often saw in the past but rather "How can we make it better". Of course, there will be time when the Security team pulls the plug and stops bad security practices but I have yet to do it at ClickHouse.

When I work with others or asked to provide advice on security topics, I often go the extra mile in doing research or experimenting in my local lab to make sure I fully understand the problem statement and the options we have. By giving clear explanations about vulnerabilities \& risks through threat modeling and the different solutions to address these issues, It changes the narrative that is often being misunderstood from "This is what you must do" to "Let's discuss and find the best approach to solve this problem".

## What makes CH a special place to be, in your opinion? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-spotlight-san-tran#what-makes-ch-a-special-place-to-be-in-your-opinion)
