---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#the-two-sides-of-the-data-coin
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2
ch_version_introduced: '0.617'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

``` ``` - **Simple aggregation with JOIN**: Top 10 users who cumulate the most number of views. An example of an aggregation on a single table. Having duplicates here would greatly affect the result of the sum function.

```

```
1-- PostgreSQL 
2SELECT
3    sum(p.viewcount) AS viewcount,
4    p.owneruserid as user_id,
5    u.displayname as display_name
6FROM posts p
7LEFT JOIN users u ON u.id = p.owneruserid
8WHERE p.owneruserid > 0
9GROUP BY user_id, display_name
10ORDER BY viewcount DESC
11LIMIT 10;
12
13-- ClickHouse 
14SELECT
15    sum(p.viewcount) AS viewcount,
16    p.owneruserid AS user_id,
17    u.displayname AS display_name
18FROM posts AS p
19FINAL
20LEFT JOIN users AS u
21FINAL ON (u.id = p.owneruserid) AND (u._peerdb_is_deleted = 0)
22WHERE (p.owneruserid > 0) AND (p._peerdb_is_deleted = 0)
23GROUP BY
24    user_id,
25    display_name
26ORDER BY viewcount DESC
27LIMIT 10
```

```

#### FINAL setting [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#final-setting)

Rather than adding the FINAL modifier to each table name in the query, you can use the [FINAL setting](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/settings/settings#final) to apply it automatically to all tables in the query.

This setting can be applied either per query or for an entire session.

```

```
1-- Per query FINAL setting
2SELECT count(*) FROM posts SETTINGS final = 1;
3
4-- Set FINAL for the session
5SET final = 1;
6SELECT count(*) FROM posts;
```

```

#### ROW policy [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#row-policy)

An easy way to hide the redundant `_peerdb_is_deleted = 0` filter is to use [ROW policy.](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/access-rights#row-policy-management) Below is an example that creates a row policy to exclude the deleted rows from all queries on the table votes.

```

```
1-- Apply row policy to all users
2CREATE ROW POLICY cdc_policy ON votes FOR SELECT USING _peerdb_is_deleted = 0 TO ALL;
```

```

> Row policies are applied to a list of users and roles. We apply it to all users and roles, but depending on your environment, you should apply it only to specific users or roles.

### Query like Postgres \-\- Minimize migration effort [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#query-like-postgres----minimize-migration-effort)

Migrating an analytical dataset from PostgreSQL to ClickHouse often requires modifying application queries to account for differences in data handling and query execution. As mentioned in the previous section, PostgreSQL queries may need adjustments to ensure proper data deduplication in ClickHouse.

This section will explore techniques for deduplicating data while keeping the original queries unchanged.

#### Views [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#views)
