---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#the-two-sides-of-the-data-coin
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2
ch_version_introduced: '0.617'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

and query execution. As mentioned in the previous section, PostgreSQL queries may need adjustments to ensure proper data deduplication in ClickHouse. This section will explore techniques for deduplicating data while keeping the original queries unchanged. #### Views [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#views)

[Views](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/view#normal-view) are a great way to hide the FINAL keyword from the query, as they do not store any data and simply perform a read from another table on each access.

Below is an example of creating views for each table of our database in ClickHouse with the FINAL keyword and filter for the deleted rows.

```

```
1CREATE VIEW posts_view AS SELECT * FROM posts FINAL where _peerdb_is_deleted=0;
2CREATE VIEW users_view AS SELECT * FROM users FINAL where _peerdb_is_deleted=0;
3CREATE VIEW votes_view AS SELECT * FROM votes FINAL where _peerdb_is_deleted=0;
4CREATE VIEW comments_view AS SELECT * FROM comments FINAL where _peerdb_is_deleted=0;
```

```

Then, we can query the views using the same query we would use in PostgreSQL.

```

```
1-- Most viewed posts
2SELECT
3    sum(viewcount) AS viewcount,
4    owneruserid
5FROM posts_view
6WHERE owneruserid > 0
7GROUP BY owneruserid
8ORDER BY viewcount DESC
9LIMIT 10
```

```

#### Refreshable Material view  [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#refreshable-material-view)

Another approach is to use a [Refreshable Materialized View](https://clickhouse.com/docs/materialized-view/refreshable-materialized-view), which enables you to schedule query execution for deduplicating rows and storing the results in a destination table. With each scheduled refresh, the destination table is replaced with the latest query results.

The key advantage of this method is that the query using the FINAL keyword runs only once during the refresh, eliminating the need for subsequent queries on the destination table to use FINAL.

However, a drawback is that the data in the destination table is only as up\-to\-date as the most recent refresh. That said, for many use cases, refresh intervals ranging from several minutes to a few hours may be sufficient.

```

```
1-- Create deduplicated posts table 
2CREATE table deduplicated_posts AS posts;
3
4-- Create the Materialized view and schedule to run every hour
5CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW deduplicated_posts_mv REFRESH EVERY 1 HOUR TO deduplicated_posts AS 
6SELECT * FROM posts FINAL where _peerdb_is_deleted=0
```

```

Then, you can query the table `deduplicated_posts` normally.

```

```
1SELECT
2    sum(viewcount) AS viewcount,
3    owneruserid
4FROM deduplicated_posts
5WHERE owneruserid > 0
6GROUP BY owneruserid
7ORDER BY viewcount DESC
8LIMIT 10;
```

```
