---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#the-two-sides-of-the-data-coin
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2
ch_version_introduced: '0.617'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

where _peerdb_is_deleted=0 ``` ``` Then, you can query the table `deduplicated_posts` normally. ``` ``` 1SELECT 2 sum(viewcount) AS viewcount, 3 owneruserid 4FROM deduplicated_posts 5WHERE owneruserid > 0 6GROUP BY owneruserid 7ORDER BY viewcount DESC 8LIMIT 10; ``` ```

### Advanced: Tuning merge settings [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#advanced-tuning-merge-settings)

ReplicatingMergeTree engine table removes duplicates periodically, at merge time, to be precise, as documented [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/guides/replacing-merge-tree#tuning-merges-for-better-query-performance). 

By default, merging occurs infrequently and is not frequent enough to serve as a reliable deduplication method. However, you can adjust the merge timing by modifying the table configuration.

The ReplacingMergeTree documentation [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/guides/replacing-merge-tree#tuning-merges-for-better-query-performance) describes the three settings that can be adjusted to merge the data more frequently:

- [min\_age\_to\_force\_merge\_seconds](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#min_age_to_force_merge_seconds) : ClickHouse will consider merging parts that are older than this value. Default to 0 \- Disabled.
- [min\_age\_to\_force\_merge\_on\_partition\_only](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#min_age_to_force_merge_on_partition_only): Whether min\_age\_to\_force\_merge\_seconds should be applied only on the entire partition and not on a subset. Default to false.

We can set these values to existing tables using the ALTER TABLE statement. For example, I could set `min_age_to_force_merge_seconds` to `10 seconds`, `min_age_to_force_merge_on_partition_only` to `true` for the table posts with the following command.

```

```
1-- Tune merge settings
2ALTER TABLE posts MODIFY SETTING min_age_to_force_merge_seconds=10;
3ALTER TABLE posts MODIFY SETTING min_age_to_force_merge_on_partition_only=true;
```

```

> Tweaking these settings increases merge frequency and can drastically reduce duplicates, but it doesn’t guarantee that there will be no duplicates. This may be acceptable for some analytical workloads.

## Ordering keys [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#ordering-keys)

[Ordering Keys](https://clickhouse.com/docs/migrations/postgresql/designing-schemas#primary-ordering-keys-in-clickhouse) (a.k.a. sorting keys) define how data is sorted on disk and indexed for a table in ClickHouse. When replicating from Postgres, ClickPipes sets the Postgres primary key of a table as the ordering key for the corresponding table in ClickHouse. In most cases, the Postgres primary key serves as a sufficient ordering key, as ClickHouse is already optimized for fast scans, and custom ordering keys are often not required.
