---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#the-two-sides-of-the-data-coin
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2
ch_version_introduced: '0.617'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

the ordering key for the corresponding table in ClickHouse. In most cases, the Postgres primary key serves as a sufficient ordering key, as ClickHouse is already optimized for fast scans, and custom ordering keys are often not required.

For larger use cases, you should include additional columns beyond the Postgres primary key in the ClickHouse ordering key to optimize queries. By default, choosing an ordering key different from the Postgres primary key can cause data deduplication issues in ClickHouse. This happens because the ordering key in ClickHouse serves a dual role: it controls data indexing and sorting while acting as the deduplication key. You can learn more about this caveat [here](https://docs.peerdb.io/mirror/ordering-key-different). The easiest way to address this issue is by defining refreshable materialized views.

### Use Refreshable Materialized Views [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#use-refreshable-materialized-views)

A simple way to define custom ordering keys (ORDER BY) is using refreshable materialized views (MVs). These allow you to periodically (e.g., every 5 or 10 minutes) copy the entire table with the desired ordering key. For more details and caveats, refer to the section [above](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#refreshable-material-view).

Below is an example of a Refreshable MV with a custom ORDER BY and required deduplication:

```

```
1CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW posts_final
2REFRESH EVERY 10 second ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree(_peerdb_version)
3ORDER BY (owneruserid,id) -- different ordering key but with suffixed postgres pkey
4AS
5SELECT * FROM posts FINAL 
6WHERE _peerdb_is_deleted = 0; -- this does the deduplication
```

```

### Custom ordering keys without refreshable materialized views [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#custom-ordering-keys-without-refreshable-materialized-views)

If refreshable materialized views don't work due to the scale of data, here are a few recommendations you can follow to define custom ordering keys on larger tables and overcome deduplication\-related [issues](https://docs.peerdb.io/mirror/ordering-key-different).

**Choose ordering key columns that don't change for a given row**

When including additional columns in the ordering key for ClickHouse (besides the primary key from Postgres), we recommend selecting columns that don't change for each row. This helps prevent data consistency and deduplication issues with ReplacingMergeTree.

For example, in a multi\-tenant SaaS application, using (`tenant_id`, `id`) as the ordering key is a good choice. These columns uniquely identify each row, and `tenant_id` remains constant for an `id` even if other columns change. Since deduplication by id aligns with deduplication by (tenant\_id, id), it helps avoid data [deduplication issues](https://docs.peerdb.io/mirror/ordering-key-different) that could arise if tenant\_id were to change.
