---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#the-two-sides-of-the-data-coin
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2
ch_version_introduced: '0.617'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

is that they get skipped when querying the table with the FINAL keyword and do not account for deduplication. This could work for a few use cases where duplicates (updates, deletes) are not present or are less common.

Projections are defined on the table we want to add a custom ordering key for. Then, each time a query is executed on this table, ClickHouse determines if the query execution can benefit from using one of the existing Projections.

Let's take an example where we want to order the table posts by the field `creationdate` instead of the current one id. This would benefit query that filter using a date range.

Consider the following query that finds the most viewed posts mentioning "clickhouse" in 2024\.

```

```
1SELECT
2    id,
3    title,
4    viewcount
5FROM stackoverflow.posts
6WHERE (toYear(creationdate) = 2024) AND (body LIKE '%clickhouse%')
7ORDER BY viewcount DESC
8LIMIT 5
9
105 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.617 sec. Processed 4.69 million rows, 714.67 MB (7.60 million rows/s., 1.16 GB/s.)
11Peak memory usage: 147.04 MiB.
```

```

By default, ClickHouse needs to do a full scan of the table as the order by is `id`, we can note in the last query processed 4\.69 million rows.
Now, let's add a Projection to order by `creationdate`.

```

```
1-- Create the Projection
2ALTER TABLE posts ADD PROJECTION creation_date_projection (
3SELECT
4*
5ORDER BY creationdate
6);
7
8-- Materialize the Projection
9ALTER TABLE posts MATERIALIZE PROJECTION creation_date_projection;
```

```

Then, we run again the same query.

```

```
1SELECT
2    id,
3    title,
4    viewcount
5FROM stackoverflow.posts
6WHERE (toYear(creationdate) = 2024) AND (body LIKE '%clickhouse%')
7ORDER BY viewcount DESC
8LIMIT 5
9
105 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.438 sec. Processed 386.80 thousand rows, 680.42 MB (882.29 thousand rows/s., 1.55 GB/s.)
11Peak memory usage: 79.37 MiB.
```

```

ClickHouse utilized the Projection to execute the query, reducing rows scanned to just 386,000 compared to 4\.69 million previously, while also lowering memory usage.

## JOINs and Denormalization [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#joins-and-denormalization)

Since Postgres is a relational database, its data model is heavily [normalized](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_normalization), often involving hundreds of tables. A common question users ask is whether the same data model works for ClickHouse and how to optimize JOIN performance.

### Optimizing JOINs [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#optimizing-joins)
