---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#the-two-sides-of-the-data-coin
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2
ch_version_introduced: '0.617'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

a relational database, its data model is heavily [normalized](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_normalization), often involving hundreds of tables. A common question users ask is whether the same data model works for ClickHouse and how to optimize JOIN performance. ### Optimizing JOINs [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#optimizing-joins)

ClickHouse has been heavily [investing](https://clickhouse.com/docs/whats-new/changelog/2024#performance-improvement) in JOIN performance. For most use cases, running queries with JOINs (as in Postgres) on raw data in ClickHouse should perform significantly better than in Postgres.

You can run the JOIN queries without any changes and observe how ClickHouse performs.

If case you want to optimize further, here are a few techniques you can try:

- **Use subqueries or CTE for filtering**: Modify JOINs as subqueries where you filter tables within the subquery before passing them to the planner. This is usually unnecessary, but it's sometimes worth trying. Below is an example of a JOIN query using a sub\-query.

```

```
1-- Use a subquery to reduce the number of rows to join
2SELECT
3    t.id AS UserId,
4    t.displayname,
5    t.views,
6    COUNTDistinct(multiIf(c.id != 0, c.id, NULL)) AS CommentsCount
7FROM (
8    SELECT id, displayname, views
9    FROM users
10    ORDER BY views DESC
11    LIMIT 10
12) t
13LEFT JOIN comments c ON t.id = c.userid
14GROUP BY t.id, t.displayname, t.views
15ORDER BY t.views DESC
16SETTINGS final=1;
```

```

- **Optimize Ordering Keys**: Consider including JOIN columns in the `Ordering Key` of the table. For more details, refer to the above section on modifying the `Ordering Key`.
- **Use Dictionaries for dimension tables**: Consider creating a [dictionary](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/dictionaries) from a table in ClickHouse to improve lookup performance during query execution. In our StackOverflow dataset, the votes table could be a good candidate for conversion into a dictionary. This [documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/dictionary#speeding-up-joins-using-a-dictionary) provides an example of how to use dictionaries to optimize JOIN queries with the StackOverflow dataset.
- **JOIN algorithms**: ClickHouse offers various algorithms for joining tables, and selecting the right one depends on the specific use case. This [blog](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-how-to-choose-the-right-algorithm-part5) explains how to choose the most suitable algorithm. Below are two examples of JOIN queries using different algorithms tailored to distinct scenarios: in the first case, the goal is to reduce memory usage, so the partial\_merge algorithm is used, while in the second case, the focus is on performance, and the parallel\_hash algorithm is used. Note the difference in memory used.
