---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#the-two-sides-of-the-data-coin
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2
ch_version_introduced: '0.617'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

the first case, the goal is to reduce memory usage, so the partial\_merge algorithm is used, while in the second case, the focus is on performance, and the parallel\_hash algorithm is used. Note the difference in memory used.

```

```
1-- Use partial merge algorithm
2SELECT
3    sum(p.viewcount) AS viewcount,
4    p.owneruserid AS user_id,
5    u.displayname AS display_name
6FROM posts AS p
7FINAL
8LEFT JOIN users AS u
9FINAL ON (u.id = p.owneruserid) AND (u._peerdb_is_deleted = 0)
10WHERE (p.owneruserid > 0) AND (p._peerdb_is_deleted = 0)
11GROUP BY
12    user_id,
13    display_name
14ORDER BY viewcount DESC
15LIMIT 10
16FORMAT `NULL`
17SETTINGS join_algorithm = 'partial_merge'
18
1910 rows in set. Elapsed: 7.202 sec. Processed 60.42 million rows, 1.83 GB (8.39 million rows/s., 254.19 MB/s.)
20Peak memory usage: 1.99 GiB.
21
22-- Use parallel hash algorithm
23SELECT
24    sum(p.viewcount) AS viewcount,
25    p.owneruserid AS user_id,
26    u.displayname AS display_name
27FROM posts AS p
28FINAL
29LEFT JOIN users AS u
30FINAL ON (u.id = p.owneruserid) AND (u._peerdb_is_deleted = 0)
31WHERE (p.owneruserid > 0) AND (p._peerdb_is_deleted = 0)
32GROUP BY
33    user_id,
34    display_name
35ORDER BY viewcount DESC
36LIMIT 10
37FORMAT `NULL`
38SETTINGS join_algorithm = 'parallel_hash'
39
4010 rows in set. Elapsed: 2.160 sec. Processed 60.42 million rows, 1.83 GB (27.97 million rows/s., 847.53 MB/s.)
41Peak memory usage: 5.44 GiB.
```

```

### Denormalization [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#denormalization)

Another approach users follow to speed up queries is denormalizing data in ClickHouse to create a more flattened table. You could do this with Refreshable Materialized views or Incremental Materialized views.

Two main strategies will be explored when [denormalizing data using materialized views](https://clickhouse.com/docs/data-modeling/denormalization). One is to flatten the raw data with no transformation simply; we'll refer to it as raw denormalization. The other approach is to aggregate the data as we denormalize it and store it in a Materialized view; we'll refer to it as aggregated denormalization. 

#### Raw denormalization with Refreshable Materialized Views [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#raw-denormalization-with-refreshable-materialized-views)

Using Refreshable Materialized views to flatten data is easy and allows for the filtering out of duplicates at refresh time, as described in the [deduplication strategy section](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#deduplication-strategy).

Let's take an example of how we can achieve that by flattening the table posts and users.
