---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database#the-two-sides-of-the-data-coin
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2
ch_version_introduced: '0.617'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

comments AS c ON u.id = c.userid AND c._peerdb_is_deleted=0 15LEFT JOIN votes AS v ON u.id = v.userid AND v._peerdb_is_deleted=0 16WHERE u._peerdb_is_deleted=0 17GROUP BY 18 u.id, 19 u.displayname, 20 u.upvotes 21ORDER BY u.upvotes DESC 22SETTINGS final=1; ``` ```

The query might take a few minutes to run. In this case, there is no need to use a Common Table Expression, as we want to process the entire dataset.

To return the same result as the JOIN query, we run a simple query on the materialized view.

```

```
1SELECT *
2FROM top_upvoted_users_activity_mv
3ORDER BY upvotes DESC
4LIMIT 10;
```

```

#### Raw denormalization using Incremental Materialized View [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#raw-denormalization-using-incremental-materialized-view)

Incremental Materialized Views can also be used for raw denormalization, offering two key advantages over Refreshable Materialized Views (RMVs):

- The query runs only on newly inserted rows rather than scanning the entire source table, making it a suitable choice for massive datasets, including those in the petabyte range.
- The materialized view is updated in real\-time as new rows are inserted into the source table, whereas RMVs refresh periodically.

However, a limitation is that deduplication cannot occur at insert time. Queries on the destination table still require the FINAL keyword to handle duplicates.

```

```
1-- Create Materialized view 
2CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW raw_denormalization_imv
3ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree(_peerdb_version)
4ORDER BY (id)  POPULATE AS
5SELECT p.id as id, p.*, u.* FROM posts p LEFT JOIN users u ON p.owneruserid = u.id;
```

```

When querying the view, we must include the FINAL modifier to deduplicate the data.

```

```
1SELECT count()
2FROM raw_denormalization_imv
3FINAL
4WHERE _peerdb_is_deleted = 0
```

```

#### Aggregated denormalization using Incremental Materialized View [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips-v2#aggregated-denormalization-using-incremental-materialized-view)

Incremental Materialized View can also aggregate data as it gets synchronized from PostgreSQL. However, this is a bit more complex as we must account for duplicates and deleted rows when aggregating them. ClickHouse supports a specific table engine, [AggregatingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/aggregatingmergetree), that is specifically designed to handle this advanced use case.

Let's walk through an example to understand better how to implement this. Consider a query that calculates the number of new questions on StackOverflow per day.
