---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/\#settings\-deduplicate\-blocks\-in\-dependent\-materialized\-views](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/#settings-deduplicate-blocks-in-dependent-materialized-views
topic: idempotent-inserts-into-a-materialized-view-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.001'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

# Idempotent inserts into a materialized view \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Schema design](/altinity-kb-schema-design/)
2. [Materialized Views](/altinity-kb-schema-design/materialized-views/)
3. Idempotent insert MV
# Idempotent inserts into a materialized view

How to make idempotent inserts into a materialized view".## Why inserts into materialized views are not idempotent?

ClickHouse® still does not have transactions. They were to be implemented around 2022Q2 but still not in the roadmap.

Because of ClickHouse materialized view is a trigger. And an insert into a table and an insert into a subordinate materialized view it’s two different inserts so they are not atomic altogether.

And insert into a materialized view may fail after the successful insert into the table. In case of any failure a client gets the error about failed insertion.
You may enable insert\_deduplication (it’s enabled by default for Replicated engines) and repeat the insert with an idea to archive idempotate insertion,
and insertion will be skipped into the source table because of deduplication but it will be skipped for materialized view as well because
by default materialized view inherits deduplication from the source table.
It’s controlled by a parameter `deduplicate_blocks_in_dependent_materialized_views` [https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/\#settings\-deduplicate\-blocks\-in\-dependent\-materialized\-views](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/#settings-deduplicate-blocks-in-dependent-materialized-views)

If your materialized view is wide enough and always has enough data for consistent deduplication then you can enable `deduplicate_blocks_in_dependent_materialized_views`.
Or you may add information for deduplication (some unique information / insert identifier).

### Example 1\. Inconsistency with deduplicate\_blocks\_in\_dependent\_materialized\_views 0
