---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres
topic: change-data-capture-cdc-with-postgresql-and-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '80.885'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 17
---

any) information is available for the previous values of the table columns involved whenever an UPDATE or DELETE event occurs. While four different values are supported, we recommend the following based on whether you need support for deletes:

- `DEFAULT` \- The default behavior is that update and delete events contain the previous values for the primary key columns of a table if that table has a primary key. For an UPDATE event, only the primary key columns with changed values are present. If a table does not have a primary key, the connector does not emit UPDATE or DELETE events for that table. Only use this value if:
	- Your ClickHouse `ORDER BY` clause only contains the Postgres primary key columns. This is unlikely since typically users add columns to the `ORDER BY` to optimize aggregation queries that are unlikely to be primary keys in Postgres.
	- You do not need support for deletes. Note: The configuration used below does not need the previous column values for updates. They are required for deletes as the new state is null.
- `FULL` \- Emitted events for update and delete operations contain the previous values of all columns in the table. This is needed if you need to support delete operations.

Set this setting using the `ALTER` command.

```
ALTER TABLE uk_price_paid REPLICA IDENTITY FULL;

```

The rest of this post assumes the user needs to support deletes. If the steps differ for the case where delete support is not required, we provide references for alternative configurations.

### Prepare ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-2#prepare-clickhouse)

#### Initial data load [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-2#initial-data-load)

Prior to handling a stream of change events, we need to preload our ClickHouse table to ensure it is consistent with Postgres. This can be accomplished in a few ways, including but not limited to:
