---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres
topic: change-data-capture-cdc-with-postgresql-and-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '80.885'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 17
---

data load [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-2#initial-data-load) Prior to handling a stream of change events, we need to preload our ClickHouse table to ensure it is consistent with Postgres. This can be accomplished in a few ways, including but not limited to:

- Using the [postgres table function](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/table-functions/postgresql) to load the dataset directly from our Postgres instance using an `INSERT INTO SELECT`. This offers a fast and easy way to load our dataset but requires us to pause changes on our Postgres instance. This may not be available in production scenarios.
- Use the Postgres export provided for download. This could be converted into a [format supported](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/formats) by ClickHouse and loaded. This is unrealistic for most large datasets.
- Configure Debezium to perform a consistent snapshot on first starting. Once the snapshot is complete, it continues streaming changes from the exact point at which the snapshot was made. This allows the connector to start with a consistent view of all of the data, with no changes that were made while the snapshot was being taken being omitted. The full process of how this was achieved is detailed [here](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/postgresql.html#postgresql-snapshots). The result of this process is a stream of read events similar to those sent when a row is inserted. While these can be handled by our materialized view pipeline below, the process tends to be suboptimal with respect to throughput.

For speed and simplicity, we use option one above. Note that our `INSERT INTO SELECT` statement sets the version and deleted columns to the values of 1 and 0, respectively.

```
INSERT INTO uk_price_paid SELECT
	id,
	price,
	date,
	postcode1,
	postcode2,
	type,
	is_new,
	duration,
	addr1,
	addr2,
	street,
	locality,
	town,
	district,
	county,
	1 AS version,
	0 AS deleted
FROM postgresql('<host>', '<database>', '<table>', '<user>', '<password>')

0 rows in set. Elapsed: 80.885 sec. Processed 27.73 million rows, 5.63 GB (342.89 thousand rows/s., 69.60 MB/s.)

```

With no tuning we are able to load all 28m rows in 80 seconds.

#### Materialized views [\#](/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-2#materialized-views)
