---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/clickpipes/postgres
topic: change-data-capture-cdc-with-postgresql-and-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '80.885'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 17
---

as [too many parts](https://clickhouse.com/docs/knowledgebase/exception-too-many-parts). For low throughput environments (\<100 rows per second), this batching is not as critical as ClickHouse will likely keep up with merges. However, users should avoid small batches at a high rate of insert.

Batching can also be configured on the Sink side. This is currently not supported explicitly in the ClickHouse Connect Sink but can be configured through the Kafka connect framework \- see the setting [`consumer.override.max.poll.records`](https://docs.confluent.io/platform/current/installation/configuration/consumer-configs.html#max-poll-records). Alternatively, users can configure [ClickHouse Async inserts](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/asynchronous-inserts#enabling-asynchronous-inserts) and allow ClickHouse to batch. In this mode, inserts can be sent as small batches to ClickHouse, which will batch rows before flushing. Note that while flushing, rows will not be searchable. This approach, therefore, \*\*does not \*\*help with end\-to\-end latency.
- Users should be cognizant of [WAL disk usage](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/postgresql.html#postgresql-wal-disk-space) and the importance of [`heartbeat.interval.ms`](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/postgresql.html#postgresql-property-heartbeat-interval-ms) in cases where tables with few changes are being monitored in databases with many updates.
- The above approach **does not currently support Postgres primary key changes**. To implement this, users will need to detect `op=delete` messages from Debezium, which have no `before` or `after` fields. The `id` should then be used to delete these rows in ClickHouse \- preferably using [Lightweight deletes](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/developer/lightweght-delete). This requires custom code instead of using a Kafka sink for sending data to ClickHouse.
- If the Primary key of a table changes, users will likely need to create a new ClickHouse table with the new column as part of the `ORDER BY` clause. Note this also requires a [process to be performed for the Debezium connector](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/postgresql.html#postgresql-streaming-changes).
- The logical decoding, on which the Debezium connector depends, does not support DDL changes. This means that the connector is unable to report DDL change events back to consumers.
- Logical decoding replication slots are supported only on primary servers. When there is a cluster of PostgreSQL servers, the connector can run on only the active primary server. It cannot run on hot or warm standby replicas. If the primary server fails or is demoted, the connector stops. After the primary server has recovered, you can restart the connector. If a different PostgreSQL server has been promoted to primary, adjust the connector configuration before restarting the connector.
- While Kafka Sinks can be safely scaled to use more workers (assuming events for the same Postgres row are hashed to the same partition), the Debezium connector allows only a [single task](https://debezium.io/documentation/reference/stable/connectors/postgresql.html#postgresql-property-tasks-max). The solution proposed above uses a connector per table, allowing the solution to be scaled at a table level.
- The documented approach assumes a connector instance per table. We currently do not support a connector monitoring several tables \- although this may be achievable with topic routing, i.e., messages are routed to a table\-specific topic. This configuration has not yet been tested.
