---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse.build
topic: clickhouse-build-an-agentic-cli-to-accelerate-postgres-apps-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

validations comparing patterns against patterns from a series of reference code bases that already use Postgres\+ClickHouse successfully. Loading video...*A demo of the code migrator agent, called on its own outside of the all\-in\-one workflow* ### All\-in\-one workflow [\#](/blog/clickhouse-build-agentic-cli-accelerate-postgres-clickhouse-apps#all-in-one-workflow)

While each agent can be used on its own, the CLI has an all\-in\-one workflow that invokes each agent in the correct order (scanner \-\> data migrator \-\> code migrator). This is generally the recommended way to use the CLI for your PoC, but we won’t hold it against you if you want to call the agents yourself.

## Using clickhouse.build [\#](/blog/clickhouse-build-agentic-cli-accelerate-postgres-clickhouse-apps#using-clickhousebuild)

You can get the CLI from the [clickhouse.build GitHub repo](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse.build). The README contains detailed instructions on setting up and configuring the CLI.

With the CLI configured, **we recommend creating a new branch in your application repository to work in**. You can then run the all\-in\-one migration workflow:

```
uv run main.py migrate /path/to/your/repo --replication-mode cdc

```

This will walk through all agents in order: scanner \-\> data migrator \-\> code migrator. **The agents are not fully autonomous** by default. The CLI will prompt you to review and accept/deny changes as you go, though you can choose to “accept all” if you wish.

The scanner agent will go through your code, discover your Postgres queries, and output a structured JSON file of the queries, a description, and their file location. The data migrator agent will read this scan file and extract the names of tables that need to be replicated into ClickHouse. With the `--replication-mode cdc` option set, the **data migrator agent will produce the `curl` commands needed to configure ClickPipes Postgres CDC** via the [ClickHouse Cloud API](https://clickhouse.com/docs/cloud/manage/api/api-overview).

Currently, **the ClickPipes configuration commands require some manual input**. Along with the command, the output contains some environment variables you’ll need to complete some details about your ClickHouse Cloud account and Postgres instance. With these details completed, you’ll need to run the `curl` commands yourself.

Loading video...*A demo of running the ClickPipes configuration commands and validating the running ClickPipes service in ClickHouse Cloud*
