---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse.build
topic: clickhouse-build-an-agentic-cli-to-accelerate-postgres-apps-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

about your ClickHouse Cloud account and Postgres instance. With these details completed, you’ll need to run the `curl` commands yourself. Loading video...*A demo of running the ClickPipes configuration commands and validating the running ClickPipes service in ClickHouse Cloud*

The code migrator agent is the final piece of the workflow. It begins by loading the scan file and installing the [clickhouse.js driver](https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/javascript) using your project’s package manager. After loading some reference examples of Postgres\+ClickHouse implementations in its context, the agent begins analysing your code base to build a plan of what to change.

The agent aims to implement the ‘strategy pattern’, where the specific backend implementation is abstracted. This pattern means you can toggle between using the original Postgres backend or the new ClickHouse\+Postgres backend with a simple feature flag. A file for each of Postgres and ClickHouse is created under `lib/strategies` which contains the logic for serving your queries via each of the respective databases. The agent will attempt to find the correct way to integrate this into your project, which means the next step can vary a bit. A common pattern is to create a database configuration at `lib/db.ts` which implements the logic to toggle between these strategies, and then update your existing routes to use the backend as configured in `db.ts`.

With each step, you’ll be asked to review the changes (unless you have chosen to accept all), and the QA sub\-agent will automatically review changes for baseline quality against the reference examples.

The workflow will wrap up by ensuring your project builds, producing a summary of the changes it made, and instructions on how to use the feature flag to toggle between strategies. You can now evaluate the impact of using ClickHouse in your application.

### Evaluating the result [\#](/blog/clickhouse-build-agentic-cli-accelerate-postgres-clickhouse-apps#evaluating-the-result)

You can run your application as normal, and it should continue to use your existing Postgres implementation by default. To use the new ClickHouse implementation, **add the new feature flag to your environment variables: `USE_CLICKHOUSE=true`**. You can flip this flag to `false` to switch back.

Loading video...*A demo of an application being switched between Postgres and ClickHouse backends, showing a 3x gain in performance.*
