---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse.build
topic: clickhouse-build-an-agentic-cli-to-accelerate-postgres-apps-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

the new feature flag to your environment variables: `USE_CLICKHOUSE=true`**. You can flip this flag to `false` to switch back. Loading video...*A demo of an application being switched between Postgres and ClickHouse backends, showing a 3x gain in performance.*

We recommend testing the normal flows of your application, having new rows inserted into Postgres to test replication, and comparing the performance of features with and without the ClickHouse feature flag enabled.

In many cases, the difference is immediately obvious; you should see that stats, charts, and tables that display analytics load several times faster without perceptible latency. Though it can be more fun to put some logging in and see the real numbers!

The change in performance you’ll see can be variable, but generally, the larger your data, the bigger the performance gain.

## The clickhouse.build design principles [\#](/blog/clickhouse-build-agentic-cli-accelerate-postgres-clickhouse-apps#the-clickhousebuild-design-principles)

clickhouse.build is a highly opinionated implementation. Its design is informed by lessons we have learned building agents for [data warehousing](https://clickhouse.com/blog/ai-first-data-warehouse), [for SREs](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=og8ieNxixp4), and [agentic analytics](https://clickhouse.com/blog/agent-facing-analytics).

We believe that the best agentic flows **keep the human in the loop**, not only keeping you informed, but also involved in the actions that are taken. **Backwards compatibility** ensures we can validate correctness and assess the real impact of changes.

Agentic workflows are new, our understanding is still evolving, and we should approach changes to production with caution, but **agents are an obvious accelerator in development and proof of concepts**.

Agents can be tuned for different tasks by supplying specific context and instructions, which means **we can have one agent optimised to make changes, and another optimised to validate those changes**. We’ve seen that this can be effective in reducing errors, but it isn’t always perfect \- that’s why we keep the human around, too.

**Evaluations might just be the highest impact and under\-explored area** that we see in agentic workflows today. Getting to an 80% level of quality can be achieved relatively easily, but going beyond this barrier takes significant effort. We think this is where evaluations become critical, allowing us to constantly review, assess, and improve. But they can also be hard to do, and easy to forget. To mitigate this, we aim to bake evaluations into the workflow itself, adopting new techniques and tooling as the space develops.
