---
source: blog
url: https://inigo.io/
topic: harnessing-the-power-of-materialized-views-and-clickhouse-for-high-performance-analytics-at-inigo
ch_version_introduced: '0.99'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

is worth noting that raw data queries are reasonably quick in ClickHouse, as ClickHouse can efficiently sift through a large number of rows in real\-time using the appropriate index for each column. ### Grouping Data in ClickHouse [\#](/blog/harnessing-the-power-of-materialized-views-and-clickhouse-for-high-performance-analytics-at-inigo#grouping-data-in-clickhouse)

In our analytics, we primarily use GROUP BY queries to obtain data. While standard queries and materialized view queries use the same SQL syntax, there is a slight modification in the way they handle counting. Instead of using `count()` to count the rows, materialized view queries use `sum(calls)` with the derived column `calls`. The column `calls` is created by using the function `count()` aliased as `calls` in the materialized view definition. This change allows us to aggregate the count of rows from the materialized view, resulting in more efficient querying and better performance.

### Understanding the Merge and State Suffix in ClickHouse [\#](/blog/harnessing-the-power-of-materialized-views-and-clickhouse-for-high-performance-analytics-at-inigo#understanding-the-merge-and-state-suffix-in-clickhouse)

In ClickHouse, the `-State` and `-Merge` suffixes are used with aggregation functions to handle intermediate aggregation states and merge them efficiently. These suffixes are particularly useful when working with distributed databases or when we need to combine aggregated results from multiple sources.

The State suffix: The aggregation functions with the State suffix return an intermediate aggregation state rather than the final result. These intermediate states are stored in a compact binary format that represents the aggregation in progress.

For example, if we want to calculate the 95th (0\.95\) and 99th (0\.99\) percentiles of a column called `server_process_time`, we can use the `quantilesState(value)` function. This function returns the intermediate state of the quantiles calculation, which we can store in a separate table or combine with other intermediate states. We utilize these state functions in our materialized views, storing their output in summarized tables.

The Merge suffix: The aggregation functions with the Merge suffix take the intermediate aggregation states produced by their corresponding State functions and merge them to produce the final aggregation result. This is useful when we have multiple intermediate states that we need to combine into a single aggregated result.

For instance, to obtain the 99th percentile of the aggregated `server_process_time`, we would use `quantileMerge(0.99)(quantiles_server_process_time)`, where `quantiles_server_process_time` is the intermediate state resulting from the `quantilesState` function used in the materialized view. We show a complete example below:
