---
source: blog
url: https://www.denic.de/
topic: denic-improves-query-times-by-10x-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

rr_dnskey_protocol Array(Int16), rr_mx_owner Array(String), rr_mx_dname Array(String), rr_mx_preference Array(Int16), rr_a_owner Array(String), rr_a_address Array(String), rr_aaaa_owner Array(String), rr_aaaa_address Array(String), rr_ns_dname Array(String), rr_ns_address Array(String), rr_ns_ip_type Array(Int16), timestamp DateTime64(6,'Europe/Berlin') ) ENGINE ReplicatedMergeTree('/ch/database/tables/{layer}-{shard}/event_data', '{replica}') PARTITION BY substring(domain, 1, 1) ORDER BY (domain, timestamp); ```

In order to create this data structure, the Python agent must link the two entities, domains and holders. In the event that holder information changes, the respective valid domain states must be selected from the ClickHouse cluster and be written to the database as new entries with the updated holder information. This query is time\-consuming and takes up a large part of the total runtime of the agent.

```
SELECT *
FROM database.domain_table_distributed
WHERE hasAny(denic_code, ['id1','id2',...]) AND ((domain, timestamp) GLOBAL IN (
    SELECT
        domain,
        max(timestamp)
    FROM database.domain_table_distributed
    GROUP BY domain
))

```

*The ‘id1’,… in the hasAny filter cover the ids of the holders updated on that day. Up to several thousand holders are updated per day.*

In order not to place such a heavy load on the registry database, the initial filling of the ClickHouse cluster had to be carried out as a day\-by\-day migration.

## **Learning The Hard Way** [\#](/blog/denic-improves-query-times-by-10x-with-clickhouse#learning-the-hard-way)

After saving several million data records, first noticeable problems occurred. The processing of the data delivered by the REST interface became noticeably slower. The query for selecting the domain states associated with holder updates took about 5 minutes. After investigating that behavior, it became clear that this would take longer and longer as the amount of data increased, making it unsustainable for the future.

The search for countermeasures led us to various options such as materialized views with the use of different ClickHouse engines to support our use case. This learning curve was quite steep and difficult as materialized views have some idiosyncrasies that need to be considered and ultimately led to us discarding this option.

The idea arose to create a materialized view on which the query increases performance.

For the first test, a materialized view was created with the AggregatedMergeTree engine, combined with argMax on the required columns. A first test on a reduced number of columns led to a significant performance increase (2x).
