---
source: blog
url: https://www.denic.de/
topic: denic-improves-query-times-by-10x-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

increases performance. For the first test, a materialized view was created with the AggregatedMergeTree engine, combined with argMax on the required columns. A first test on a reduced number of columns led to a significant performance increase (2x).

```
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW database.aggregated_mv_test on cluster ds_cluster
ENGINE = ReplicatedAggregatingMergeTree('/ch/database/tables/{layer}-{shard}/aggregated_mv_test', '{replica}')
PARTITION BY substring(domain, 1, 1)
ORDER BY (domain)
POPULATE
AS
SELECT
  argMaxState(reg_acc_id, toFloat64(timestamp)) as reg_acc_id,
  argMaxState(contact_code,toFloat64(timestamp)) as contact_code,
  argMaxState(denic_code,toFloat64(timestamp)) as denic_code,
  argMaxState(holder_country_code,toFloat64(timestamp)) as holder_country_code,
  domain,
  argMaxState(domain_ace,toFloat64(timestamp)) as domain_ace,
  maxState(toFloat64(timestamp)) as latest_timestamp
 from
database.domain_table
group by domain;

```

However, a test with all the required columns required too many resources. Even 128 GB RAM was not enough, so the option was discarded.

For the second attempt, the ReplicatedReplacingMergeTree engine was used. This sorts by domain and versions by timestamp. Older, identical versions of the data records, i.e. not current domain entries, are automatically deleted by the engine. This results in a materialized view that for the most part only contains current data. Since the deletion process runs asynchronously in the background, the state determination in the query is still needed. In addition, it was important to ensure that the data was no longer distributed randomly by the Distributed table engine, but that the same domains were stored on the same shard because the replacing process only works on the same shard. The result was a similarly good performance increase (2x) due to the significantly reduced number of entries. In addition, much fewer resources are used overall.

Finally, we came to the conclusion that we use a normal table with the ReplicatedReplacingMergeTree engine, which is maintained with inserts. This is also sorted by domain and versioned by timestamp. Older, time series entries of the same domain are sorted out. If an error occurs when importing the data, the Python agent deletes the incorrectly inserted daily data and restarts the integration process for that day.

This resulted in an improvement of the query runtime from 5 to 3 minutes.

Already a good improvement, but still very long by ClickHouse standards, despite the complicated query. Nevertheless, the increase in query runtimes with continuous filling became much flatter than before.

## **A Helpful Hand Raised From Somewhere** [\#](/blog/denic-improves-query-times-by-10x-with-clickhouse#a-helpful-hand-raised-from-somewhere)
