---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year
ch_version_introduced: '3.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 17
---

implementation of this API resides in different components inside the Data Plane. This is transparent to the consumer, and therefore we have a “Data Plane API Façade”. Some of the tasks done by the Data Plane API are:

- Start / Stop / Pause ClickHouse service
- Change ClickHouse service configuration
	- Exposed endpoints (e.g. HTTP, GRPC)
	- Endpoint configuration (e.g. FQDN)
	- Endpoint security (e.g. private endpoints, IP filtering)
- Set up main customer database account and reset the password
- Get information about ClickHouse service
	- Information about endpoints (e.g. FQDNs, ports)
	- Information about VPC pairing
- Get status information about the ClickHouse service
	- Provisioning, Ready, Running, Paused, Degraded
- Subscribe to events for status updates
- Backups \& restores

## Multi\-Cloud [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year#multi-cloud)

Our Control Plane runs in AWS, but the goal is to have the Data Plane deployed across all major cloud providers, including Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure. Data Plane encapsulates and abstracts cloud service provider (CSP) specific logic, so that Control Plane does not need to worry about these details.

We started our production buildout and went to GA initially on AWS, but commenced proof\-of\-concept work on the Google Cloud Platform (GCP) in parallel, to make sure that major CSP\-specific challenges are flagged early. As expected, we needed to find alternatives to AWS\-specific components, but generally that work has been incremental. Our main concern was how much work separation of compute and storage on top of S3 would take to port to another cloud provider. To our relief, in GCP, we greatly benefited from S3 API compatibility on top of Google Cloud Storage (GCS). Our object store support on S3 mostly “just worked”, aside from a few differences with authentication.

## Design Decisions [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year#design-decisions)

In this section, we will review some of the design decisions and the reasons for our choices.

### Kubernetes vs Direct VMs [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year#kubernetes-vs-direct-vms)

We decided to choose Kubernetes for compute infrastructure early on due to built\-in functionality for scaling, re\-scheduling (e.g., in case of crashes), monitoring (liveness/readiness probes), built\-in service discovery, and easy integration with load balancers. An Operator pattern allows building automation for any events happening in the cluster. Upgrades are easier (both application and node/OS upgrades) and 100% cloud agnostic.

### kOps vs Managed Kubernetes [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year#kops-vs-managed-kubernetes)
