---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year
ch_version_introduced: '3.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 17
---

operating system, the ClickHouse server, and also some signals from the query usage to determine how much compute should be allocated to a service. Second, it has stronger controls on disruption budgets, required to run a stateful service.

Every 30 minutes, it computes the amount of resources that a service should be allocated based on the historical and current values of these signals. It uses this data to determine whether it should add or shrink resources for the service. The auto scaler determines the optimal time to make changes based on factors like startup time and usage pattern. We are continuing to iterate on making these recommendations faster and better, by incorporating more inputs and making more sophisticated predictions.

### Reliability [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year#reliability)

Data is crucial to businesses, and in this day and age, no one can tolerate downtime when it comes to infrastructure services. We knew early on that ClickHouse Cloud needed to be highly available with a built\-in ability to recover quickly from internal component failures and ensure they do not affect overall availability of the system. The cluster topology is configured such that the pods are distributed on 3 availability zones (AZs) for production services and 2 AZs for development services so that the cluster can recover from zone failures. We also support multiple regions so that outages in one region do not impact the services in other regions.

To avoid running into resource limitations in one cloud account, we embraced [cellular architecture](https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/resilience/resilient-applications-with-cell-based-architecture/) for our Data Plane. “Cells” are independent, autonomous units that function independently of each other, providing a high degree of fault tolerance and resiliency for the overall service. This helps us spin up additional Data Plane cells as needed to cater to increased traffic and demand, providing isolation of different services if necessary.

#### Performance Benchmarking [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year#performance-benchmarking)
