---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year
ch_version_introduced: '3.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 17
---

dimensions. We use a rolling monthly billing period which starts on the creation of the organization. m3ter also has a built\-in capability to manage commitments and prepayments for different use cases. This is how the bill is generated:

1. Aggregated usage metrics are added to the current bill and are translated into cost using the pricing model.
2. Any credits (trial, prepaid credits, etc.) available to the organization are applied toward the bill amount (depending on the credit’s start/end dates, the amount remaining, etc.).
3. The bill’s total is repeatedly calculated to detect important changes such as the depletion of credits and triggering notifications (“Your ClickHouse Cloud trial credits have exceeded 75%”).
4. After the end of the billing period, we recalculate once more to make sure we include any remaining usage metrics that were sent after the close date but pertain to the period
5. The bill is then closed, and any amount not covered by credit is added to a new invoice on [Stripe](https://stripe.com/), where it will be charged to the credit card.
6. A new bill is opened to start aggregating the new billing period’s usage and cost.

Administrators can put a credit card on file for pay\-as\-you\-go charging. We use Stripe’s elements UI components to ensure the sensitive card information is securely sent directly to Stripe and tokenized.

### AWS Marketplace [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year#aws-marketplace)

In December 2022, ClickHouse started offering integrated billing through AWS Marketplace. The pricing model in AWS is the same as pay\-as\-you\-go, but Marketplace users are charged for their ClickHouse usage via their AWS account. In order to facilitate the integration with AWS, we use [Tackle](https://tackle.io/), which provides a unified API layer for integrating with all major cloud providers, significantly reducing the overall development efforts and time to market when building a multi\-cloud infrastructure offering. When a new subscriber registers through AWS, Tackle completes the handshake and redirects them to ClickHouse Cloud. Tackle also provides an API for reporting billings from m3ter to AWS.

## UI and Product Analytics [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year#ui-and-product-analytics)
