---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year
ch_version_introduced: '3.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 17
---

worry about overloading the system with “too much data”! ## Takeaways [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year#takeaways) Over the course of building ClickHouse Cloud we’ve learned a lot. If we had to net it out, the most important takeaways for us were these.

1. **Cloud is not truly elastic.** Even though we think of the public cloud as elastic and limitless, at high scale, it is not. It's important to design with scale in mind, read the fine print on all the limitations, and ensure you are doing scale tests to figure out the bottlenecks in your infrastructure. For example, we ran into instance availability issues, and IAM role limits, and other gotchas using scale testing before we went to public beta, which prompted us to embrace cellular architecture.
2. **Reliability and security are features too.** It is important to find a balance between new feature development and not compromising on reliability, security, and availability in the process. It’s tempting to just keep building/adding new features, especially when the product is in its early stages of development, but architectural decisions made early in the process have a huge impact down the line.
3. **Automate everything.** Testing (user, functional, performance testing), implementing CI/CD pipelines to deploy all changes quickly and safely. Use Terraform for provisioning static infrastructure like EKS clusters, but use ArgoCD for dynamic infrastructure, as it allows you to have a single place where you see what is running in your infrastructure.
4. **Set aggressive goals**. We set out to build our cloud in under a year. We decided on milestones in advance (May, October, December), and then planned out what was feasible by that time. We had to make hard decisions about what was most important for each milestone, and de\-scoped as needed. Because we had a strict stack rank of features for each release, when we had to cut, we were able to drop what was at the bottom without regrets.
5. **Focus on time to market.** To fast\-track product development, it's crucial to decide which components of your architecture you need to build in\-house vs buy existing solutions. For example, instead of building our own metering and marketplace integration, we leveraged m3ter and Tackle to help us get to market faster with usage\-based pricing and marketplace billing. We would not have been able to build our cloud offering in a year, if we did not focus our engineering efforts on the most core innovation and partnered for the rest.
6. **Listen to your users.** We brought our users as design partners onto our platform early on. Our private preview had 50 users that we invited to use our service for free to provide feedback. It was a hugely successful program that allowed us to very quickly learn what was working and what we had to adjust on the way to public beta. During public beta, again, we put down our pencils and went on a listening tour. On the way to GA, we quickly adjusted our pricing model and introduced dedicated services for developers to remove friction and align with the needs of our users.
7. **Track and analyze your cloud costs**. It’s easy to use cloud infrastructure inefficiently from the start and get used to paying those big bills every month. Focus on cost efficiency not as an afterthought, but as a critical component when building and designing the product. Look for best practices of using cloud services, be it EC2, EKS, network, or block store like S3\. We found 1PB of junk data in S3 due to failed multipart uploads, and turned on TTL to make sure it never happens again.
