---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/full-text-search-ga-release
topic: inside-clickhouse-full-text-search-fast-native-and-columnar
ch_version_introduced: '10.1007'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

language grammar (no random IDs, no hash values). Because ClickHouse is a **column\-oriented database**, we store these documents one after another in a column of type [String](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/string/). Each row holds a single document, which we can later search.

To make the content searchable, we split every document into a series of **tokens**, typically words. For example, the sentence:

`All cats like mice`

…would be tokenized as:

`[All, cats, like, mice]`

The default tokenizer splits strings by spaces or punctuation. More advanced tokenizers can split log messages into their components, for example, timestamp, severity, and message fields, or even extract **n\-grams** for fuzzy search.

A **full\-text search** then retrieves documents that contain a specific token. For example, to find the rows which mention `cat`, we might run:

```

```
SELECT [...] FROM [...] WHERE documents LIKE '% cat %'
```


```

(Notice the spaces — without them, we might accidentally match “educate” or “multiplication.”)

Full\-text search can be implemented in two ways:

- **Full scans** – scan every row (slow)
- **Inverted indexes** – map each token to its containing rows (fast)

Inverted indexes make it possible to search massive datasets in milliseconds, and that’s exactly what ClickHouse now supports natively, with scale and performance in mind.

Before we dive into the details of how it works, let’s unpack the name “inverted index”, a simple idea that flips the usual document → terms mapping on its head, but can seem counter\-intuitive if you’ve never worked with search engines before.

### Why is it called an inverted index? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#why-is-it-called-an-inverted-index)

When you read multiple documents from beginning to end, you can remember for each document the (unique) terms it contains. This `document → terms` mapping is sometimes called forward index.

An **inverted index** search flips that around: It stores a **term → documents mapping**. Given a term, it allows you to find all documents that contain it.

It’s like the back of a book: instead of reading pages to find a word, you look up the word to see which pages it’s on. That reverse lookup is what makes search engines fast, and it’s built into ClickHouse.
