---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/full-text-search-ga-release
topic: inside-clickhouse-full-text-search-fast-native-and-columnar
ch_version_introduced: '10.1007'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

the back of a book: instead of reading pages to find a word, you look up the word to see which pages it’s on. That reverse lookup is what makes search engines fast, and it’s built into ClickHouse.

Now that we know what an inverted index is, it’s worth looking at where ClickHouse started. ClickHouse has always had ways to speed up text lookups, but these were approximations. To see why a true inverted index was needed, let’s trace the evolution from our earlier Bloom\-filter\-based approach to the new design.

## From bloom filters to real indexes [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#from-bloom-filters-to-real-indexes)

Before introducing native text indexes, ClickHouse already supported full\-text search using the "bloom\_filter" "tokenbf\_v1" and "ngrambf\_v1" indexes. These are based on Bloom filters, a probabilistic data structure for checking whether the indexed documents contain a value.

Compared to inverted indexes, Bloom filters come with a few key limitations:

- **Hard to tune:** Using a Bloom filter requires manual tuning of the byte size, the number of hash functions, and an understanding how they affect the false positive rate. This often requires deep expertise.
- **False positives:** Bloom filters may answer that a value *might* exist even when it doesn’t. This means that additional rows have to be scanned, reducing efficiency of the search.
- **Limited functionality:** Bloom filter indexes only support a small subset of expressions in the WHERE clause, while inverted indexes are, in principle, more versatile.

Inverted indexes solve all three of these issues, and that’s why they now power full\-text search in ClickHouse.

## How the new text index works [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#how-the-new-text-index-works)

To understand how the new engine achieves its speed and precision, we first need to look at how the index is organized on disk and how queries interact with its building blocks.

### Index structure: dictionaries \+ posting lists [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#index-structure-dictionaries--posting-lists)

ClickHouse’s full\-text search is powered by a **native inverted index**, also known as a *text index*. Conceptually, this index consists of two key components:

1. **A dictionary**, storing all unique tokens across all documents.
2. **Posting lists**, which record the row numbers of documents that contain each token.

Here’s how it works:
