---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/full-text-search-ga-release
topic: inside-clickhouse-full-text-search-fast-native-and-columnar
ch_version_introduced: '10.1007'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

of posting lists Smaller segments reduce memory pressure, but may lead to higher storage usage due to redundant storage of tokens in multiple segment FST dictionaries. Segmenting is off by default but can be enabled for advanced workloads.

#### What happens during an index lookup? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#what-happens-during-an-index-lookup)

Here’s how ClickHouse finds rows for a search token:

1. **Traverse all dictionaries**:

The token is searched in every segment’s FST. When the FST reaches its accepting state, we know the token exists in that segment.

2. **Sum up FST output values**:

These values give us the offset into the posting list file.

3. **Load the posting list**:

	- If it’s a cold run, the posting list is read from disk.
	- If it’s a hot run, it’s already cached in memory.*Note: The row IDs stored in posting lists are **relative** to the segment’s starting row. They’re extrapolated to full granule row numbers during lookup. (More on that in direct index usage optimization below.)*

With the fundamentals in place, let’s look at the major improvements we’ve made to the text index in this release, covering everything from API design to memory footprint and smarter granularity.

## Recent improvements [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#recent-improvements)

Over the past three months, we’ve made significant improvements to full\-text search in ClickHouse, from user\-facing changes to deep storage optimizations. Here’s what’s new (and what’s coming):

### 1\. A cleaner API [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#1-a-cleaner-api)

We renamed the index from “inverted” to “text” and reworked the syntax to be more intuitive.

You can now pass parameters as key\-value pairs directly in the INDEX clause. This makes the index both easier to use and more flexible.

```

```
CREATE TABLE tab
(
    [...],
    documents String,
    INDEX document_index(documents) TYPE text(tokenizer = 'default')
)
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY [...];
```


```

This creates a text index using the default tokenizer (which splits text by non\-alphanumeric characters). You can also specify alternate tokenizers like 'ngram', 'split', and 'no\_op', and provide additional settings like the n\-gram size.

### 2\. New split tokenizer [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#2-new-split-tokenizer)

We’ve added a new tokenizer type called **split** that is designed for semi\-structured text such as logs or CSV\-style data.

Unlike the default tokenizer, which tries to identify words based on general rules, the split tokenizer **only** breaks text at specific separators you define (by default: `,`, `;`, , `\n`, and `\\`).
