---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/full-text-search-ga-release
topic: inside-clickhouse-full-text-search-fast-native-and-columnar
ch_version_introduced: '10.1007'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

means we can check whether a token is *definitely not* in the dictionary **before** scanning the FST. That helps reduce disk I/O and CPU overhead. Since bloom filters are small, they can stay in memory at all times.

#### Text index vs bloom filter index: what’s the difference? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#text-index-vs-bloom-filter-index-whats-the-difference)

There are two ways to use bloom filters in full\-text search:

1. A **bloom filter text index**, where tokens are inserted directly into the bloom filter
2. A **bloom filter on top of a text index segment**, initialized from the segment dictionary

We mentioned the disadvantages of bloom\-filter based indexes above \- the most important downside is that these indexes require manual tuning.

The second way is fully automatic based on the indexed data and a configurable false positive rate (default: 0\.1%) \- no manual tuning is needed, meaning it easy to use and suitable for most scenarios.

> In general, **we recommend using text indexes over bloom filters** unless you have specific accuracy needs.

While bloom filters speed up the decision of whether to check a dictionary, we’ve also improved how you query the index with new search functions.

### 7\. New search functions: searchAny and searchAll [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#7-new-search-functions-searchany-and-searchall)

**Modern problems require modern solutions.**

As ClickHouse added additional tokenizers and tokenizer\-specific parameters, it turned out that the existing “hasToken” function is limited: it always uses the **default tokenizer** to tokenize the search term, not the tokenizer used to build the index. That can be unintuitive, and we’ve fixed it.

We’ve introduced two new functions for full\-text search: searchAny and searchAll.

#### **A simple example** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-full-text-search#a-simple-example)

Let’s say we create a table like this:

```

```
SET allow_experimental_full_text_index = 1;

CREATE TABLE tab (
  id Int64,
  str String,
  INDEX idx_str(str) TYPE text(tokenizer = 'ngram', ngram_size = 5)
)
ENGINE = MergeTree()
ORDER BY id;

INSERT INTO tab (id, str) VALUES
  (1, 'Click House'),
  (2, 'ClickHouse');
```


```

Now, using the old hasToken function:

```

```
SELECT * FROM tab WHERE hasToken(str, 'Click');
┌─id─┬─str─────────┐
│  1 │ Click House │
└────┴─────────────┘
```


```

Why?

hasToken requires a non\-alphanumeric separator before and after the token. Since “ClickHouse” has no separator, it’s not matched.

Try `searchAny` instead:

```

```
SELECT * FROM tab WHERE searchAny(str, ['Click']);
```


```

Returns both rows:
