---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/embedded-dict-functions.md)#
topic: functions-for-working-with-embedded-dictionaries-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

# Functions for Working with Embedded Dictionaries \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Functions](/docs/sql-reference/functions)- [Regular functions](/docs/sql-reference/functions/regular-functions)- Embedded dictionary
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/embedded-dict-functions.md)# Functions for Working with Embedded Dictionaries

NoteIn order for the functions below to work, the server config must specify the paths and addresses for getting all the embedded dictionaries. The dictionaries are loaded at the first call of any of these functions. If the reference lists can't be loaded, an exception is thrown.As such, the examples shown in this section will throw an exception in [ClickHouse Fiddle](https://fiddle.clickhouse.com/) and in quick release and production deployments by default, unless first configured.

For information about creating reference lists, see the section ["Dictionaries"](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/dictionary/embedded).

## Multiple Geobases[​](#multiple-geobases "Direct link to Multiple Geobases")

ClickHouse supports working with multiple alternative geobases (regional hierarchies) simultaneously, in order to support various perspectives on which countries certain regions belong to.

The 'clickhouse\-server' config specifies the file with the regional hierarchy:

`<path_to_regions_hierarchy_file>/opt/geo/regions_hierarchy.txt</path_to_regions_hierarchy_file>`

Besides this file, it also searches for files nearby that have the `_` symbol and any suffix appended to the name (before the file extension).
For example, it will also find the file `/opt/geo/regions_hierarchy_ua.txt`, if present. Here `ua` is called the dictionary key. For a dictionary without a suffix, the key is an empty string.

All the dictionaries are re\-loaded during runtime (once every certain number of seconds, as defined in the [`builtin_dictionaries_reload_interval`](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#builtin_dictionaries_reload_interval) config parameter, or once an hour by default). However, the list of available dictionaries is defined once, when the server starts.

All functions for working with regions have an optional argument at the end – the dictionary key. It is referred to as the geobase.

Example:

```
regionToCountry(RegionID) – Uses the default dictionary: /opt/geo/regions_hierarchy.txt
regionToCountry(RegionID, '') – Uses the default dictionary: /opt/geo/regions_hierarchy.txt
regionToCountry(RegionID, 'ua') – Uses the dictionary for the 'ua' key: /opt/geo/regions_hierarchy_ua.txt

```

### regionToName[​](#regiontoname "Direct link to regionToName")

Accepts a region ID and geobase and returns a string of the name of the region in the corresponding language. If the region with the specified ID does not exist, an empty string is returned.

**Syntax**

```
regionToName(id\[, lang\])

```

**Parameters**

- `id` — Region ID from the geobase. [UInt32](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint).
- `geobase` — Dictionary key. See [Multiple Geobases](#multiple-geobases). [String](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/string). Optional.

**Returned value**

- Name of the region in the corresponding language specified by `geobase`. [String](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/string).
- Otherwise, an empty string.
