---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/didi-migrates-from-elasticsearch-to-clickHouse-for-a-new-generation-log-storage-system
topic: clickhouse-vs-elasticsearch-the-mechanics-of-count-aggregations
ch_version_introduced: '8.12'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 12
---

aggregation states](/blog/clickhouse_vs_elasticsearch_mechanics_of_count_aggregations#-multi-core-parallelization) for automatic and (in contrast to Elasticsearch) **incremental** data transformation. Based on ClickHouse’s [on\-disk format](https://github.com/ClickHouse/examples/blob/main/blog-examples/clickhouse-vs-elasticsearch/on-disk-format-and-insert-processing/README.md#clickhouse), we explain the mechanics of incremental materialized views in detail [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/examples/blob/main/blog-examples/clickhouse-vs-elasticsearch/continuous-data-transformation/README.md#clickhouse). ClickHouse materialized views have three key advantages over Elasticsearch transforms:

- **No raw data dependency**: Raw data in source tables is never queried, not even when the user wants to perform an exact aggregation calculation. This allows different [TTL](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/developer/ttl) settings to be applied to the source and the pre\-aggregated target table. Furthermore, in scenarios where only the same set of aggregation queries should be performed, users can choose to ditch the source data after pre\-aggregation completely (using the [Null table engine](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/special/null)).
- **High scalability and low computing costs**: Incremental aggregation is engineered especially for scenarios where raw data source tables contain billions or trillions of rows. Instead of querying the ever\-growing source table repeatedly and recalculating aggregate values from all existing rows belonging to the same group when new raw data rows for that group exist, ClickHouse simply calculates a [partial aggregation state](/blog/clickhouse_vs_elasticsearch_mechanics_of_count_aggregations#-multi-core-parallelization) from (only) the values of the newly inserted raw data rows. This state is incrementally [merged](https://github.com/ClickHouse/examples/blob/main/blog-examples/clickhouse-vs-elasticsearch/continuous-data-transformation/README.md#clickhouse) with the previously calculated states in the background. In other words \- each raw data value is aggregated with other raw data values exactly once. This results in dramatically lower computing costs compared to aggregation by brute force over the raw data.
- **Real\-time**: When an insert into the raw data source table is successfully acknowledged, the pre\-aggregation target table is guaranteed to be up\-to\-date.

### Backfilling pre\-aggregations [\#](/blog/clickhouse_vs_elasticsearch_mechanics_of_count_aggregations#backfilling-pre-aggregations)

In our [accompanying benchmark blog post](/blog/clickhouse_vs_elasticsearch_the_billion_row_matchup), we use continuous transforms in Elasticsearch and equivalent materialized views in ClickHouse to pre\-aggregate ingested data on the fly into separate data sets. Sometimes, this is not feasible. For example, when a large portion of the data is already ingested, re\-ingesting is not possible or too expensive, and queries that would benefit from running over this data in a pre\-aggregated format are introduced.

#### Elasticsearch [\#](/blog/clickhouse_vs_elasticsearch_mechanics_of_count_aggregations#elasticsearch-4)
