---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/formats.mdx)#
topic: formats-for-input-and-output-data-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

# Formats for Input and Output Data \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- Input and Output Formats
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/formats.mdx)# Formats for input and output data

ClickHouse supports most of the known text and binary data formats. This allows easy integration into almost any working
data pipeline to leverage the benefits of ClickHouse.

## Input formats[​](#input-formats "Direct link to Input formats")

Input formats are used for:

- Parsing data provided to `INSERT` statements
- Performing `SELECT` queries from file\-backed tables such as `File`, `URL`, or `HDFS`
- Reading dictionaries

Choosing the right input format is crucial for efficient data ingestion in ClickHouse. With over 70 supported formats,
selecting the most performant option can significantly impact insert speed, CPU and memory usage, and overall system
efficiency. To help navigate these choices, we benchmarked ingestion performance across formats, revealing key takeaways:

- **The [Native](/docs/interfaces/formats/Native) format is the most efficient input format**, offering the best compression, lowest
resource usage, and minimal server\-side processing overhead.
- **Compression is essential** \- LZ4 reduces data size with minimal CPU cost, while ZSTD offers higher compression at the
expense of additional CPU usage.
- **Pre\-sorting has a moderate impact**, as ClickHouse already sorts efficiently.
- **Batching significantly improves efficiency** \- larger batches reduce insert overhead and improve throughput.

For a deep dive into the results and best practices,
read the full [benchmark analysis](https://www.clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-input-format-matchup-which-is-fastest-most-efficient).
For the full test results, explore the [FastFormats](https://fastformats.clickhouse.com/) online dashboard.

## Output formats[​](#output-formats "Direct link to Output formats")

Formats supported for output are used for:

- Arranging the results of a `SELECT` query
- Performing `INSERT` operations into file\-backed tables

## Formats overview[​](#formats-overview "Direct link to Formats overview")

The supported formats are:
