---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/formats.mdx)#
topic: formats-for-input-and-output-data-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

--- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | You can control some format processing parameters with the ClickHouse settings. For more information read the [Settings](/docs/operations/settings/formats) section.

## Format schema[​](#formatschema "Direct link to Format schema")

The file name containing the format schema is set by the setting `format_schema`.
It's required to set this setting when it is used one of the formats `Cap'n Proto` and `Protobuf`.
The format schema is a combination of a file name and the name of a message type in this file, delimited by a colon,
e.g. `schemafile.proto:MessageType`.
If the file has the standard extension for the format (for example, `.proto` for `Protobuf`),
it can be omitted and in this case, the format schema looks like `schemafile:MessageType`.

If you input or output data via the [client](/docs/interfaces/client) in interactive mode, the file name specified in the format schema
can contain an absolute path or a path relative to the current directory on the client.
If you use the client in the [batch mode](/docs/interfaces/client#batch-mode), the path to the schema must be relative due to security reasons.

If you input or output data via the [HTTP interface](/docs/interfaces/http) the file name specified in the format schema
should be located in the directory specified in [format\_schema\_path](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#format_schema_path)
in the server configuration.

## Skipping errors[​](#skippingerrors "Direct link to Skipping errors")

Some formats such as `CSV`, `TabSeparated`, `TSKV`, `JSONEachRow`, `Template`, `CustomSeparated` and `Protobuf` can skip broken row if parsing error occurred and continue parsing from the beginning of next row. See [input\_format\_allow\_errors\_num](/docs/operations/settings/formats#input_format_allow_errors_num) and
[input\_format\_allow\_errors\_ratio](/docs/operations/settings/formats#input_format_allow_errors_ratio) settings.
Limitations:

- In case of parsing error `JSONEachRow` skips all data until the new line (or EOF), so rows must be delimited by `\n` to count errors correctly.
- `Template` and `CustomSeparated` use delimiter after the last column and delimiter between rows to find the beginning of next row, so skipping errors works only if at least one of them is not empty.
[PreviousSyntax](/docs/sql-reference/syntax)[NextList of data types](/docs/sql-reference/data-types)- [Input formats](#input-formats)- [Output formats](#output-formats)- [Formats overview](#formats-overview)- [Format schema](#formatschema)- [Skipping errors](#skippingerrors)
Was this page helpful?
