---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/examples/blob/main/blog-examples/kmeans/kmeans.ipynb
topic: how-to-scale-k-means-clustering-with-just-clickhouse-sql
ch_version_introduced: '0.6860357'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

easily increase the [level of parallelism in our clustering](https://clickhouse.com/blog/supercharge-your-clickhouse-data-loads-part2) to use the full resources of a Clickhouse instance. Should we need to handle larger datasets, we simply scale the database service \- a simple operation in ClickHouse Cloud.

Transforming the data for K\-Means is a simple SQL query that can process billions of rows per second. With centroids and points held in ClickHouse, we can compute statistics such as model errors with just SQL and potentially use our clusters for other operations e.g. product quantization for vector search.

## K\-Means recap [\#](/blog/kmeans-clustering-with-clickhouse#k-means-recap)

K\-Means is an [unsupervised machine learning algorithm](https://cloud.google.com/discover/what-is-unsupervised-learning) for partitioning a dataset into K distinct, non\-overlapping subgroups (clusters) where each data point belongs to the cluster with the nearest mean (the cluster's centroid). The process begins by initializing K centroids randomly or based on some heuristic. These centroids serve as the initial representatives of the clusters. The algorithm then iterates through two main steps until convergence: assignment and update.

In the assignment step, each data point is assigned to the nearest cluster based on the Euclidean distance (or another distance metric) between it and the centroids. In the update step, the centroids are recalculated as the mean of all points assigned to their respective clusters, potentially shifting their positions.

This process is guaranteed to converge, with the assignments of points to clusters eventually stabilizing and not changing between iterations. The number of clusters, K, needs to be specified beforehand and heavily influences the algorithm's effectiveness with the optimal value depending on the dataset and the goal of the clustering. For more details, we recommend this [excellent overview](https://medium.com/@dilekamadushan/introduction-to-k-means-clustering-7c0ebc997e00).

## Points and centroids [\#](/blog/kmeans-clustering-with-clickhouse#points-and-centroids)

The key problem our user posed was the ability to efficiently compute centroids. Suppose we have a simple data schema for a `transactions` table, where each row represents a bank transaction for a specific customer. Vectors in ClickHouse are represented as an `Array` type.

```
CREATE TABLE transactions
(
  id UInt32,
  vector Array(Float32), 
  -- e.g.[0.6860357,-1.0086979,0.83166444,-1.0089169,0.22888935]
  customer UInt32,
  ...other columns omitted for brevity
)
ENGINE = MergeTree ORDER BY id

```
