---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/examples/blob/main/blog-examples/kmeans/kmeans.ipynb
topic: how-to-scale-k-means-clustering-with-just-clickhouse-sql
ch_version_introduced: '0.6860357'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 15
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

row subset of the NYC taxi rides. Testing on a larger dataset for all of taxi rides for 2009 (170m rows), we can complete clustering for k\=5 in around 3 mins with a ClickHouse service using 60 cores.

```
k=5
initializing...OK
…
Iteration 15, 16, 17, 18, 19
Number changed cluster in iteration 20: 288
stopping as moved less than 1000 clusters in last iteration
Execution time in seconds: 178.61135005950928
D^2 error for 5: 1839404623.265372
Completed in 178.61135005950928s and 20 iterations with error 1839404623.265372

```

This produces similar clusters to our previous smaller subset. Running the same clustering on a 64 core `m5d.16xlarge` using scikit\-learn takes 6132s, over 34x slower! Steps to reproduce this benchmark can be found at the end of the notebook and using [these steps](https://gist.github.com/gingerwizard/979e8e10fca6e0d186bf3eb848eb2628) for scikit\-learn.

## Potential improvements \& future work [\#](/blog/kmeans-clustering-with-clickhouse#potential-improvements--future-work)

Clustering is very sensitive to the initial points selected. K\-Means\+\+ is an improvement over standard K\-Means clustering that addresses this by introducing a smarter initialization process that aims to spread out the initial centroids, reducing the likelihood of poor initial centroid placement and leading to faster convergence as well as potentially better clustering. We leave this as an exercise for the reader to improve.

K\-Means also struggles to handle categorical variables. This can be partially handled with one\-hot encoding (also possible in SQL) as well as dedicated algorithms such as [KModes clustering](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2021/06/kmodes-clustering-algorithm-for-categorical-data/) designed for this class of data. Custom distance functions for specific domains instead of just Euclidean distance are also common and should be implementable using User Defined Functions (UDFs).

Finally, it might also be interesting to explore other soft clustering algorithms, such as Gaussian Mixture Models for normally distributed features, or Hierarchical Clustering algorithms, such as Agglomerative clustering. These latter approaches also overcome one of the main limitations of K\-Means \- the need to specify K. We would love to see attempts to implement these in ClickHouse SQL!

[Get started](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog) with ClickHouse Cloud today and receive $300 in credits. At the end of your 30\-day trial, continue with a pay\-as\-you\-go plan, or [contact us](/company/contact?loc=blog-cta-footer) to learn more about our volume\-based discounts. Visit our [pricing page](/pricing?loc=blog-cta-header) for details.

Share this postCopy URLShare on Y CombinatorShare on TwitterShare on BlueSkyShare on FacebookShare on LinkedIn### Subscribe to our newsletter
