---
source: blog
url: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/ClickHouse/clickhouse/latest/docs
topic: using-clickhouse-cloud-and-terraform-for-ci-cd
ch_version_introduced: '0.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

selections it made above. Include this file in your version control repository so that Terraform can guarantee to make the same selections by default when you run "terraform init" in the future. Terraform has been successfully initialized! ```

With our provider configured, we can deploy a ClickHouse Cloud service by adding a few lines of HCL to our above file.

```
variable "service_password" {
  type = string
}

resource "clickhouse_service" "service" {
  name       	= "example-service"
  cloud_provider = "aws"
  region     	= "us-east-2"
  tier       	= "development"
  idle_scaling   = true
  password  = var.service_password
  ip_access = [
	{
    	source  	= "0.0.0.0/0"
    	description = "Anywhere"
	}
  ]
}

output "CLICKHOUSE_HOST" {
  value = clickhouse_service.service.endpoints.0.host
}

```

Here we specify our desired cloud provider, region, and tier. The tier can either be development or production. A development tier represents the entry offering in ClickHouse Cloud, appropriate for smaller workloads and starter projects. For the above example, we enable idling, such that our service doesn’t consume costs if unused.

> Enabling idle\_scaling is the only valid value for development tier instances, i.e., it cannot be disabled. Future versions of the provider will validate this setting.

We must also specify a service name and list of IP addresses from which this service will be accessible (anywhere in our example), as well as a password for the service. We again abstract this as a variable to our secrets file.
Our output declaration captures the endpoint of our service in a `CLICKHOUSE_HOST` output variable, ensuring obtaining the connection details once the service is ready is simple. The full example main.tf file can be found [here](https://pastila.nl/?025ef1fd/d369943908f299267b8b8d488c230380).

Provisioning this service requires only a single command, `terraform apply`, with the option `-var-file` to pass our secrets.
