---
source: blog
url: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/ClickHouse/clickhouse/latest/docs
topic: using-clickhouse-cloud-and-terraform-for-ci-cd
ch_version_introduced: '0.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

shown, Terraform constructs a plan based on the definition before provisioning the service. The hostname assigned to our service is also printed, thanks to our earlier output configuration. `terraform destroy` can be used to delete the above service.

> In order for Terraform to apply changes to a set of resources, it requires a means of obtaining its current state, including the resources that are provisioned and their configuration. This is described within a "state", which contains a full description of the resources. This allows changes to be made to resources over time, with each command able to determine the appropriate actions to take. In our simple case, we hold this state locally in the folder in which the above command was run. State management, however, is a [far more involved topic](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/state) with a number of means of maintaining it appropriate for real\-world environments, including using [HashiCorp's cloud offering](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/state/remote). This is particularly relevant when more than an individual, or system, is expected to operate on the state at any given time and concurrency control is required.

## CI/CD \- a practical example [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-terraform-for-continuous-integration-and-continuous-delivery-deployment-ci-cd#cicd---a-practical-example)

### Adding Terraform to Github actions [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-terraform-for-continuous-integration-and-continuous-delivery-deployment-ci-cd#adding-terraform-to-github-actions)

Testing against ClickHouse Cloud is essential to providing high\-quality clients to our users. Until the availability of the Terraform provider, our ClickHouse clients were tested against a single service in ClickHouse Cloud with tests orchestrated by [Github actions](https://github.com/features/actions). This instance was shared amongst our clients, each creating their databases and tables whenever a PR or commit was made against the repository. While this was sufficient, it suffered from some limitations:
