---
source: blog
url: https://discover.clickhouse.com/newsletter.html
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-july-2022-geo-queries-for-railway-enthusiasts
ch_version_introduced: '2.4'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

Distance FROM ( SELECT CommonName AS Name, any(Longitude) AS Lon, any(Latitude) AS Lat FROM stops WHERE (StopType = 'PLT') AND (Name LIKE '%Underground%') GROUP BY CommonName ORDER BY Lat * Lon ASC ) ORDER BY Distance ASC ```

Stations close to each other will have almost exactly the same latitude and longitude, so the product of the two will be almost exactly the same. Sorting the result set by `Lat * Lon` causes each station to be sorted next to the station closest to it. Then we use a window function to find the previous row (so the closest station to this station), calculate the distance between the two and order by that.

Turns out the two closest stations are not two different stations at all! At a distance of just 4 meters, “Heathrow Terminals 1\-2\-3 Underground Station” and “Heathrow Terminals 2 \& 3 Underground Station” are really more or less the same station. The next result, however, is what we are looking for: Queensway and Bayswater are two separate stations at the opposite end of a city block. Google Maps says it takes 2 minutes to walk from one to the other. Why are there two stations so close to each other? Well, they serve different tube lines: Queensway is a stop on the Central line, Bayswater is served by the Circle and District lines. If you ever visit London and have a choice between the two, avoid the former and go with the latter. You’ll thank me, especially in summer.

**Reading Corner**

What we’ve been reading:
