---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/
topic: schema-design-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '155.066'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 43
---

While those numbers can vary a lot depending on your hardware \& settings there is some safe ‘Goldilocks’ zone where ClickHouse work the best with default settings \& usual hardware. ### Number of tables (system\-wide, across all databases)

- non\-replicated [MergeTree\-family](https://kb.altinity.com/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/)
tables \= few thousands is still acceptable, if you don’t do realtime inserts in more that few dozens of them. See [\#32259](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/32259)
- ReplicatedXXXMergeTree \= few hundreds is still acceptable, if you don’t do realtime inserts in more that few dozens of them. Every Replicated table comes with it’s own cost (need to do housekeeping operations, monitoring replication queues etc). See [\#31919](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/31919)
- Log family table \= even dozens of thousands is still ok, especially if database engine \= Lazy is used.

### Number of databases

Fewer than number of tables (above). Dozens / hundreds is usually still acceptable.

### Number of inserts per seconds

For usual (non async) inserts \- dozen is enough. Every insert creates a part, if you will create parts too often, ClickHouse will not be able to merge them and you will be getting ’too many parts’.

### Number of columns in the table

Up to a few hundreds. With thousands of columns the inserts / background merges may become slower / require more of RAM.
See for example <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/6943>
<https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/27502>

### ClickHouse instances on a single node / VM

One is enough. Single ClickHouse can use resources of the node very efficiently, and it may require some complicated tuning to run several instances on a single node.

### Number of parts / partitions (system\-wide, across all databases)

More than several dozens thousands may lead to performance degradation: slow starts (see <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/10087>
).

### Number of tables \& partitions touched by a single insert

If you have realtime / frequent inserts no more than few.

For the inserts are rare \- up to couple of dozens.

### Number of parts in the single table

More than \~ 5 thousands may lead to issues with alters in Replicated tables (caused by `jute.maxbuffer` overrun, see [details](../altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/zookeeper-session-expired.md)
), and query speed degradation.

### Disk size per shard

Less than 10TB of compressed data per server. Bigger disk are harder to replace / resync.

### Number of shards

Dozens is still ok. More may require having more complex (non\-flat) routing.
