---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/
topic: schema-design-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '155.066'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 43
---

degradation. ### Disk size per shard Less than 10TB of compressed data per server. Bigger disk are harder to replace / resync. ### Number of shards Dozens is still ok. More may require having more complex (non\-flat) routing.

### Number of replicas in a single shard

2 is minimum for HA. 3 is a ‘golden standard’. Up to 6\-8 is still ok. If you have more with realtime inserts \- it can impact the zookeeper traffic.

### Number of [Zookeeper nodes](https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/clickhouse-zookeeper/)
in the ensemble

3 (Three) for most of the cases is enough (you can loose one node). Using more nodes allows to scale up read throughput for zookeeper, but doesn’t improve writes at all.

### Number of [materialized views](/altinity-kb-schema-design/materialized-views/)
attached to a single table.

Up to few. The less the better if the table is getting realtime inserts. (no matter if MV are chained or all are fed from the same source table).

The more you have the more costly your inserts are, and the bigger risks to get some inconsistencies between some MV (inserts to MV and main table are not atomic).

If the table doesn’t have realtime inserts you can have more MV.

### Number of projections inside a single table.

Up to few. Similar to MV above.

### Number of secondary indexes a single table.

One to about a dozen. Different types of indexes has different penalty, bloom\_filter is 100 times heavier than min\_max index
At some point your inserts will slow down. Try to create possible minimum of indexes.
You can combine many columns into a single index and this index will work for any predicate but create less impact.

### Number of [Kafka tables / consumers](https://altinity.com/blog/kafka-engine-the-story-continues)
inside

High number of Kafka tables maybe quite expensive (every consumer \= very expensive librdkafka object with several threads inside).
Usually alternative approaches are preferable (mixing several datastreams in one topic, denormalizing, consuming several topics of identical structure with a single Kafka table, etc).

If you really need a lot of Kafka tables you may need more ram / CPU on the node and
increase `background_message_broker_schedule_pool_size` (default is 16\) to the number of Kafka tables.

# 2 \- ClickHouse® row\-level deduplication

ClickHouse® row\-level deduplication.## ClickHouse® row\-level deduplication.
