---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/
topic: schema-design-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '155.066'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 20
total_chunks_in_doc: 43
---

usage and query speed. This is where [SnowflakeID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snowflake_ID) comes into play, providing a robust solution for PK management. Here’s a deep dive into why and how Snowflake IDs are beneficial and practical implementation examples. ### Why Snowflake ID?

- **Natural IDs Suck**: Natural keys derived from business data can lead to various issues like complexity and instability. Surrogate keys, on the other hand, are system\-generated and stable.
- Surrogate keys simplify joins and indexing, which is crucial for performance in large\-scale data warehousing.
- Monotonic or sequential IDs help maintain the order of entries, which is essential for performance tuning and efficient range queries.
- Having both a timestamp and a unique ID in the same column allows for fast filtering of rows during SELECT operations. This is particularly useful for time\-series data.

### **Building Snowflake IDs**

There are two primary methods to construct the lower bits of a Snowflake ID:

1. **Hash of Important Columns**:

Using a hash function on significant columns ensures uniqueness and distribution.
2. **Row Number in insert batch**

Utilizing the row number within data blocks provides a straightforward approach to generating unique identifiers.

### **Implementation as UDF**

Here’s how to implement Snowflake IDs using standard SQL functions while utilizing second and millisecond timestamps.

Pack hash to lower 22 bits for DateTime64 and 32bits for DateTime

```
create function toSnowflake64 as (dt,ch) ->
  bitOr(dateTime64ToSnowflakeID(dt),
   bitAnd(bitAnd(ch,0x3FFFFF)+
      bitAnd(bitShiftRight(ch, 20),0x3FFFFF)+
      bitAnd(bitShiftRight(ch, 40),0x3FFFFF),
      0x3FFFFF) 
  );

create function toSnowflake as (dt,ch) ->
  bitOr(dateTimeToSnowflakeID(dt),
   bitAnd(bitAnd(ch,0xFFFFFFFF)+
      bitAnd(bitShiftRight(ch, 32),0xFFFFFFFF),
      0xFFFFFFFF) 
  );
    
with cityHash64('asdfsdnfs;n') as ch,
  now64() as dt
select dt,
  hex(toSnowflake64(dt,ch) as sn) ,
  snowflakeIDToDateTime64(sn);

with cityHash64('asdfsdnfs;n') as ch,
  now() as dt
select dt,
  hex(toSnowflake(dt,ch) as sn) ,
  snowflakeIDToDateTime(sn);

```
### **Creating Tables with Snowflake ID**

**Using Materialized Columns and hash**

```
create table XX 
(
  id Int64 materialized toSnowflake(now(),cityHash64(oldID)),
  oldID  String,
  data String
) engine=MergeTree order by id;

```
Note: Using User\-Defined Functions (UDFs) in CREATE TABLE statements is not always useful, as they expand to create table DDL, and changing them is inconvenient.

**Using a Null Table, Materialized View, and** rowNumberInAllBlocks

A more efficient approach involves using a Null table and materialized views.
