---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/
topic: schema-design-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '155.066'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 22
total_chunks_in_doc: 43
---

consists of A party details: event\_timestamp, A MSISDN , A IMEI, A IMSI , A start location, A end location , B MSISDN, B IMEI, B IMSI , B start location, B end location, and some other metadata.

Searches will use one of the A or B fields, for example, A IMSI, within the start and end time window.

A msisdn, A imsi, A imei values are tightly coupled as users rarely change their phones.

The queries will be:

```
select * from X where A = '0123456789' and ts between ...;
select * from X where B = '0123456789' and ts between ...;

```
and both A \& B are high\-cardinality values

ClickHouse® primary skip index (ORDER BY/PRIMARY KEY) works great when you always include leading ORDER BY columns in the WHERE filter. There are exceptions for low\-cardinality columns and high\-correlated values, but here is another case. A \& B both have high cardinality, and it seems that their correlation is at a medium level.

Various solutions exist, and their effectiveness largely depends on the correlation of different column data. Testing all solutions on actual data is necessary to select the best one.

### ORDER BY \+ additional Skip Index

```
create table X (
    A UInt32,
    B UInt32,
    ts DateTime,
    ....
    INDEX ix_B (B) type minmax GRANULARITY 3
) engine = MergeTree
partition by toYYYYMM(ts)
order by (toStartOfDay(ts),A,B);

```
bloom\_filter index type instead of min\_max could work fine in some situations.

### Inverted index as a projection

```
create table X (
    A UInt32,
    B UInt32,
    ts DateTime,
    ....
    PROJECTION ix_B  (
        select A, B,ts ORDER BY B, ts
    )
) engine = MergeTree
partition by toYYYYMM(ts)
order by (toStartOfDay(ts),A,B);

select * from X 
where A in (select A from X where B='....' and ts between ...)
  and B='...' and ts between ... ;

```
- The number of rows the subquery returns should not be very high. 1M rows seems to be a suitable limit.
- A separate table with a Materialized View can also be used similarly.
- accessing pattern for the main table will “point”, so better to lower index\_granularity to 256\. That will increase RAM usage by Primary Key

### mortonEncode

(available from 23\.10\)

Do not prioritize either A or B, but distribute indexing efficiency between them.
