---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/
topic: schema-design-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '155.066'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 24
total_chunks_in_doc: 43
---

all ‘common’ fields for each row - if you need to select all data for one time point you need to scan several ranges of data. ## 2 Each measurement (with lot of metrics) in it’s own row

In that way you need to put all the metrics in one row (i.e.: timestamp, sourceid, ….)
That approach is usually a source of debates about how to put all the metrics in one row.

### 2a Every metric in it’s own column

i.e.: timestamp, sourceid, metric1\_value, … , metricN\_value

Pros and cons:

- Pros
	- simple
	- really easy to access / scan for rows with particular metric
	- specialized and well adjusted datatypes for every metric.
	- good for dense recording (each time point can have almost 100% of all the possible metrics)
- Cons
	- adding new metric \= changing the schema (adding new column). not suitable when set of metric changes dynamically
	- not applicable when there are too many metrics (when you have more than 100\-200\)
	- when each timepoint have only small subset of metrics recorded \- if will create a lot of sparse filled columns.
	- you need to store ’lack of value’ somehow (NULLs or default values)
	- to read full row \- you need to read a lot of column files.

### 2b Using arrays / Nested / Map

i.e.: timestamp, sourceid, array\_of\_metric\_names, array\_of\_metric\_values

Pros and cons:

- Pros
	- easy to extend, you can have very dynamic / huge number of metrics.
	- you can use Array(LowCardinality(String)) for storing metric names efficiently
	- good for sparse recording (each time point can have only 1% of all the possible metrics)
- Cons
	- you need to extract all metrics for row to reach a single metric
	- not very handy / complicated non\-standard syntax
	- different metrics values stored in single array (bad compression)
	- to use values of different datatype you need to cast everything to string or introduce few arrays for values of different types.

### 2c Using JSON

i.e.: timestamp, sourceid, metrics\_data\_json

Pros and cons:
