---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/
topic: schema-design-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '155.066'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 37
total_chunks_in_doc: 43
---

when one table is filled by several MV. With engine\=Atomic it hard to map underlying table with the MV. 2. Avoid using POPULATE when creating MATERIALIZED VIEW on big tables. Use manual backfilling (with the same query) instead.

	- With POPULATE the data ingested to the source table **during MV populating will not appear in MV**.
	- POPULATE doesn’t work with TO syntax.
	- With manual backfilling, you have much better control on the process \- you can do it in parts, adjust settings etc.
	- In case of some failure ‘in the middle (for example due to timeouts), it’s hard to understand the state of the MV.
```
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW mv_source2target TO target
AS SELECT ... FROM source WHERE cond > ...

INSERT INTO target SELECT ... FROM source WHERE cond < ...

```
This way you have full control backfilling process (you can backfill in smaller parts to avoid timeouts, do some cross\-checks / integrity\-checks, change some settings, etc.)

## FAQ

### Q. Can I attach MATERIALIZED VIEW to the VIEW, or engine\=Merge, or engine\=MySQL, etc.?

Since MATERIALIZED VIEWs are updated on every INSERT to the underlying table and you can not insert anything to the usual VIEW, the materialized view update will never be triggered.

Normally, you should build MATERIALIZED VIEWs on the top of the table with the MergeTree engine family.

### Q. I’ve created a materialized error with some error, and since it’s reading from Kafka, I don’t understand where the error is

Look into system.query\_views\_log table or server logs, or system.text\_log table. Also, see the next question.

### Q. How to debug misbehaving MATERIALIZED VIEW?

You can also attach the same MV to a dummy table with engine\=Null and do manual inserts to debug the behavior. In a similar way (as the Materialized view often contains some pieces of the application’s business logic), you can create tests for your schema.

#### Warning

Always test MATERIALIZED VIEWs first on staging or testing environmentsPossible test scenario:
