---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/
topic: schema-design-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '155.066'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 38
total_chunks_in_doc: 43
---

In a similar way (as the Materialized view often contains some pieces of the application’s business logic), you can create tests for your schema. #### Warning Always test MATERIALIZED VIEWs first on staging or testing environmentsPossible test scenario:

1. create a copy of the original table `CREATE TABLE src_copy ... AS src`
2. create MV on that copy `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW ... AS SELECT ... FROM src_copy`
3. check if inserts to src\_copy work properly, and mv is properly filled. `INSERT INTO src_copy SELECT * FROM src LIMIT 100`
4. cleanup the temp stuff and recreate MV on real table.

### Q. Can I use subqueries / joins in MV?

It is possible but it is **a very bad idea** for most of the use cases\*\*.\*\*

So it will most probably work not as you expect and will hit insert performance significantly.

The MV will be attached (as AFTER INSERT TRIGGER) to the left\-most table in the MV SELECT statement, and it will ‘see’ only freshly inserted rows there. It will ‘see’ the whole set of rows of other tables, and the query will be executed EVERY TIME you do the insert to the left\-most table. That will impact the performance speed there significantly.
If you really need to update the MV with the left\-most table, not impacting the performance so much you can consider using dictionary / engine\=Join / engine\=Set for right\-hand table / subqueries (that way it will be always in memory, ready to use).

### Q. How are MVs executed sequentially or in parallel?

By default, the execution is sequential and alphabetical. It can be switched by [parallel\_view\_processing](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#parallel_view_processing)
.

Parallel processing could be helpful if you have a lot of spare CPU power (cores) and want to utilize it. Add the setting to the insert statement or to the user profile. New blocks created by MVs will also follow the squashing logic similar to the one used in the insert, but they will use the min\_insert\_block\_size\_rows\_for\_materialized\_views and min\_insert\_block\_size\_bytes\_for\_materialized\_views settings.

### Q. How to alter MV implicit storage (w/o TO syntax)

1. take the existing MV definition

```
SHOW CREATE TABLE dbname.mvname;

```
Adjust the query in the following manner:

	- replace ‘CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW’ to ‘ATTACH MATERIALIZED VIEW’
	- add needed columns;
2. Detach materialized view with the command:
