---
source: blog
url: https://games.gala.com/
topic: gala-supercharges-analytics-performance-with-clickhouse-on-aws
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

which is crucial for understanding player behavior, optimizing monetization, experimenting, and improving the overall gaming experience. But as the company’s games portfolio expanded and its user base grew, its existing data infrastructure struggled with the volume of data.

In addition to product development, the company’s marketing teams needed analytics data to help direct effective campaigns and strategies. Meanwhile, its engineering teams were spending an increasing amount of time managing the data infrastructure rather than focusing on more strategic initiatives. This needed to change if the business was going to continue to grow. The leadership team at Gala decided to review the data platform market for a suitable replacement for its existing Databricks system.

## A quick migration to a ‘Rocket\-Fast’ data platform [\#](/blog/gala#a-quick-migration-to-a-rocket-fast-data-platform)

After an investigation of leading data platforms, the company chose to migrate to ClickHouse. The platform was chosen for the scalability and performance improvements it offered and for its lower costs.

The initial workload was ingesting its blockchain data from Kafka, but the team quickly recognized the performance and cost benefits possible by powering their analytical dashboards on AWS. Gala has since expanded data sources to include Airbyte, [Amazon S3](https://aws.amazon.com/s3), and Fivetran for continuous ingestion of data.

After the team had completed the ingestion of multiple data sources into ClickHouse, the next stage was the optimization of queries, resources, and connectors, with a focus on further reducing costs and improving efficiency. “ClickHouse is well known as one of the fastest database systems out there,” says Mike Rexford, lead data analyst at Gala. “And that has proven itself out, especially when you’re using its features to their fullest. It is rocket fast.”
