---
source: blog
url: https://games.gala.com/
topic: gala-supercharges-analytics-performance-with-clickhouse-on-aws
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

well known as one of the fastest database systems out there,” says Mike Rexford, lead data analyst at Gala. “And that has proven itself out, especially when you’re using its features to their fullest. It is rocket fast.”

Another early catalyst for change was to make analytics and business intelligence (BI) capabilities available to the broader company and make data products more accessible to employees without the relevant technical skills. The company wanted to use Metabase, a user\-friendly, open\-source BI and data visualization tool, to enable this but its previous system couldn’t serve the necessary data at the required speed. ClickHouse was able to support the rollout of Metabase and enable business teams across the company to run their own queries and analytics on the tool. This was enabled by using ClickHouse’s ability to save queries and run API endpoints directly to those saved queries. This change helped remove technical barriers to its analytics.

Gala found the support from ClickHouse “super responsive” despite being in distant time zones. Technical support was particularly helpful for system\-based concerns relating to early data ingestion issues. The company’s small internal technical team appreciated that, if there was a criticism or a problem, ClickHouse listened and fixed the problem or removed it in the next release.

## Sub\-second performance and a 30% cost reduction [\#](/blog/gala#sub-second-performance-and-a-30-cost-reduction)

Performance has improved significantly. “We did have a few unoptimized tables in our previous platform we were struggling with. We had query times in the minutes,” says Keith Cook, data engineer at Gala. “Once we switched over to ClickHouse, we got the indexing correct from the get\-go and ended up with sub\-second query times on the same tables.”

Using ClickHouse on AWS has enabled the company to increase the amount of data available for analysis, rising from 3 TB at the start of the project in February 2024 to 9 TB by the completion of the migration in December 2024, when it decommissioned its old system. The initial costs for working in ClickHouse were 30 percent lower than on its previous data platform. The next steps are to use the ClickHouse ClickPipes data\-processing pipeline to build an even more efficient extract, load, transform (ELT) function.
