---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/delete.md)#
topic: the-lightweight-delete-statement-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

anticipate frequent deletes, consider using a [custom partitioning key](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/custom-partitioning-key). You can then use the [`ALTER TABLE ... DROP PARTITION`](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition#drop-partitionpart) command to quickly drop all rows associated with that partition. ## Limitations of lightweight `DELETE`[​](#limitations-of-lightweight-delete "Direct link to limitations-of-lightweight-delete")

### Lightweight `DELETE`s with projections[​](#lightweight-deletes-with-projections "Direct link to lightweight-deletes-with-projections")

By default, `DELETE` does not work for tables with projections. This is because rows in a projection may be affected by a `DELETE` operation. But there is a [MergeTree setting](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings) `lightweight_mutation_projection_mode` to change the behavior.

## Performance considerations when using lightweight `DELETE`[​](#performance-considerations-when-using-lightweight-delete "Direct link to performance-considerations-when-using-lightweight-delete")

**Deleting large volumes of data with the lightweight `DELETE` statement can negatively affect SELECT query performance.**

The following can also negatively impact lightweight `DELETE` performance:

- A heavy `WHERE` condition in a `DELETE` query.
- If the mutations queue is filled with many other mutations, this can possibly lead to performance issues as all mutations on a table are executed sequentially.
- The affected table has a very large number of data parts.
- Having a lot of data in compact parts. In a Compact part, all columns are stored in one file.

## Delete permissions[​](#delete-permissions "Direct link to Delete permissions")

`DELETE` requires the `ALTER DELETE` privilege. To enable `DELETE` statements on a specific table for a given user, run the following command:

```
GRANT ALTER DELETE ON db.table to username;

```

## How lightweight DELETEs work internally in ClickHouse[​](#how-lightweight-deletes-work-internally-in-clickhouse "Direct link to How lightweight DELETEs work internally in ClickHouse")

1. **A "mask" is applied to affected rows**

When a `DELETE FROM table ...` query is executed, ClickHouse saves a mask where each row is marked as either "existing" or as "deleted". Those "deleted" rows are omitted for subsequent queries. However, rows are actually only removed later by subsequent merges. Writing this mask is much more lightweight than what is done by an `ALTER TABLE ... DELETE` query.

The mask is implemented as a hidden `_row_exists` system column that stores `True` for all visible rows and `False` for deleted ones. This column is only present in a part if some rows in the part were deleted. This column does not exist when a part has all values equal to `True`.
2. **`SELECT` queries are transformed to include the mask**
