---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/delete.md)#
topic: the-lightweight-delete-statement-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

column is only present in a part if some rows in the part were deleted. This column does not exist when a part has all values equal to `True`. 2. **`SELECT` queries are transformed to include the mask**

When a masked column is used in a query, the `SELECT ... FROM table WHERE condition` query internally is extended by the predicate on `_row_exists` and is transformed to:

```
SELECT ... FROM table PREWHERE _row_exists WHERE condition

```

At execution time, the column `_row_exists` is read to determine which rows should not be returned. If there are many deleted rows, ClickHouse can determine which granules can be fully skipped when reading the rest of the columns.
3. **`DELETE` queries are transformed to `ALTER TABLE ... UPDATE` queries**

The `DELETE FROM table WHERE condition` is translated into an `ALTER TABLE table UPDATE _row_exists = 0 WHERE condition` mutation.

Internally, this mutation is executed in two steps:

	1. A `SELECT count() FROM table WHERE condition` command is executed for each individual part to determine if the part is affected.
	2. Based on the commands above, affected parts are then mutated, and hardlinks are created for unaffected parts. In the case of wide parts, the `_row_exists` column for each row is updated, and all other columns' files are hardlinked. For compact parts, all columns are re\-written because they are all stored together in one file.From the steps above, we can see that lightweight `DELETE` using the masking technique improves performance over traditional `ALTER TABLE ... DELETE` because it does not re\-write all the columns' files for affected parts.

## Related content[​](#related-content "Direct link to Related content")

- Blog: [Handling Updates and Deletes in ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/handling-updates-and-deletes-in-clickhouse)
[PreviousNAMED COLLECTION](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/named-collection)[NextSYSTEM](/docs/sql-reference/statements/system)- [Examples](#examples)- [Lightweight `DELETE` does not delete data immediately](#lightweight-delete-does-not-delete-data-immediately)- [Deleting large amounts of data](#deleting-large-amounts-of-data)- [Limitations of lightweight `DELETE`](#limitations-of-lightweight-delete)
	- [Lightweight `DELETE`s with projections](#lightweight-deletes-with-projections)- [Performance considerations when using lightweight `DELETE`](#performance-considerations-when-using-lightweight-delete)- [Delete permissions](#delete-permissions)- [How lightweight DELETEs work internally in ClickHouse](#how-lightweight-deletes-work-internally-in-clickhouse)- [Related content](#related-content)
Was this page helpful?
