---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/ai-first-data-warehouse
topic: how-to-set-up-clickhouse-for-agentic-analytics
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

Turn on Gen AI for access to the latest AI features ### Logical schema design [\#](/blog/how-to-set-up-clickhouse-for-agentic-analytics#logical-schema-design) Now that you have your warehouse, you will want to organize your data for ease of discovery for both humans and machines.

Structure your data into separate databases. ClickHouse supports a two\-part namespace: \<*database\_name*\>.\<*object\_name*\>.

Pick a structure that makes discovery easier based on how your team(s) communicate. A common model is using dimensional or medallion architecture. As an example to guide us through this blog, we will use lightweight dimensional modeling.

- Raw (Ingestion layer)
- Staging (Cleaned and standardized)
- Marts (Curated, aggregated, AI\-ready)

```

```
1create database raw;
2create database staging;
3create database marts;
```

```

For development, you can either create a sandbox database for developers to share or a database per developer. Shared is great for collaboration, especially if you’re iterating together over the same objects, while developer\-specific allows isolation and prevents surprises. For this blog, we will follow through with a developer\-specific database for sandboxing.

```

```
1create database dev_sandbox_achen;
```

```

## Access control [\#](/blog/how-to-set-up-clickhouse-for-agentic-analytics#access-control)

Since all the databases you just created are accessible to all the services you created, you’ll need to set up access controls to implement guardrails.

### Create roles and grant access [\#](/blog/how-to-set-up-clickhouse-for-agentic-analytics#create-roles-and-grant-access)

Create roles to group together different permissions, such as table access. We recommend starting out with at least:

- Developer (able to read from Raw and create/modify in Staging \& Marts databases)
- LLM (able to query only the Marts database tables and views)
- *(optional)* Service\_Role (similar to Developer, for automated processes like orchestration)

Here is some sample SQL to get you started:

```

```
1/* Developer Role Creation & Permissioning */
2create role if not exists developer_role;
3grant select on raw.* to developer_role;
4grant select, insert, alter, create, drop on staging.* to developer_role;
5grant select, insert, alter, create, drop on marts.* to developer_role;
6grant create temporary table on *.* to developer_role;
7
8/* LLM  Role Creation & Permissioning */
9create role if not exists llm_role;
10grant select on marts.* to llm_role;
```

```

### Create Users [\#](/blog/how-to-set-up-clickhouse-for-agentic-analytics#create-users)

Now that you have the roles, you can create users for the databases. *Please note that user management for the ClickHouse Cloud console is separate to user management within the database itself.*
