---
source: blog
url: https://benchmark.clickhouse.com/
topic: building-a-medallion-architecture-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

(optionally compressed), including Parquet and lake formats such as Iceberg. This approach of using S3 as a staging area is particularly common when processing larger semi\-structured data whose schema is less consistent. #### Optimization for fast inserts [\#](/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-with-clickhouse#optimization-for-fast-inserts)

Our Bronze layer is typically implemented using a MergeTree, which is designed to handle fast inserts efficiently. The table's schema and ordering key are designed to support efficient insert operations while also enabling performant reads in case data needs to be replayed (to the silver layer) or explored for data quality issues. Given this layer will not serve consumers, we recommend optimizing the ordering key for efficient full data scans i.e. use an ordering key consistent with the read order \- usually time.

#### Support for semi\-structured JSON data [\#](/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-with-clickhouse#support-for-semi-structured-json-data)

The new [JSON type](https://clickhouse.com/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse) in ClickHouse is a critical feature for handling semi\-structured data in the Bronze layer. This type allows the ingestion of dynamic and unpredictable schemas without the need for strict enforcement upfront, making it particularly valuable for datasets with inconsistent or evolving structures. By supporting highly dynamic JSON, the Bronze layer becomes an effective landing area for raw data, accommodating scenarios where schema consistency is not guaranteed. Note that the JSON type [allows filtering rules](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/newjson) to be applied with control over which object paths are preserved. Users may also wish to filter out all invalid JSON prior to storage in this layer and possibly flatten complex structures. 

> The use of this type is not limited to the Bronze layer, with valid applications in other layers, e.g., for columns containing dynamic schemas by design, e.g., user tags.

#### Materialized Columns for basic processing [\#](/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-with-clickhouse#materialized-columns-for-basic-processing)

Materialized columns offer a powerful mechanism for extracting and transforming specific fields during ingestion. While limited in scope, they enable efficient processing of JSON data by creating derived columns for commonly queried attributes. This approach is especially useful in cases where the JSON data includes irregular paths or structures, allowing for basic pre\-processing without the overhead of full schema enforcement. These extracted columns are also commonly used for subsequent conditional filtering.

#### Partitioning and data retention [\#](/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-with-clickhouse#partitioning-and-data-retention)
