---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://localhost:8085';
topic: schema-and-formats-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

statement: CREATE TEMPORARY TABLE test ( `movie_id` Int64, `title` String, `release_year` Int64 ) ENGINE = Memory ``` ## Step 3: Create the Kafka Table with the Inferred Schema Now, use the inferred schema to create the Kafka table:

```
CREATE TABLE movies_kafka
(
    `movie_id` Int64,
    `title` String,
    `release_year` Int64
)
ENGINE = Kafka
SETTINGS kafka_broker_list = 'localhost:29092',
         kafka_topic_list = 'movies-raw',
         kafka_format = 'AvroConfluent',
         kafka_group_name = 'movies',
         kafka_schema_registry_url = 'http://localhost:8085';

```
This approach reduces manual schema definition efforts and enhances data integration workflows by utilizing the schema inference capabilities of ClickHouse for AvroConfluent messages.

## Appendix

**Avro** is a binary serialization format used within Apache Kafka for efficiently serializing data with a compact binary format. It relies on schemas, which define the structure of the serialized data, to ensure robust data compatibility and type safety.

**Schema Registry** is a service that provides a centralized repository for Avro schemas. It helps manage and enforce schemas across applications, ensuring that the data exchanged between producers and consumers adheres to a predefined format, and facilitates schema evolution in a safe manner.

In ClickHouse, the **Avro** format is used for data that contains the schema embedded directly within the file or message. This means the structure of the data is defined and included with the data itself, allowing for self\-describing messages. However, embedding the schema within every message is not optimal for streaming large volumes of data, as it increases the workload and network overhead. Repeatedly passing the same schema with each message can be inefficient, particularly in high\-throughput environments.

On the other hand, the **AvroConfluent** format in ClickHouse is specifically designed to work with the Confluent Schema Registry. This format expects the schema to be managed externally in a schema registry rather than being embedded within each message. It retrieves schema information from the Schema Registry, which allows for centralized schema management and versioning, facilitating easier schema evolution and enforcement across different applications using Kafka.
