---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/71053>
topic: configure-clickhouse-for-low-memory-environments-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.75'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

<background_message_broker_schedule_pool_size>1</background_message_broker_schedule_pool_size> <background_distributed_schedule_pool_size>1</background_distributed_schedule_pool_size> <tables_loader_foreground_pool_size>0</tables_loader_foreground_pool_size> <tables_loader_background_pool_size>0</tables_loader_background_pool_size> </clickhouse> ``` ``` <!-- users.xml --> <clickhouse> <profiles> <default> <max_threads>2</max_threads> <max_block_size>8192</max_block_size> <queue_max_wait_ms>1000</queue_max_wait_ms> <max_execution_time>600</max_execution_time> <input_format_parallel_parsing>0</input_format_parallel_parsing> <output_format_parallel_formatting>0</output_format_parallel_formatting> <max_bytes_before_external_group_by>3221225472</max_bytes_before_external_group_by> <!-- 3 GB --> <max_bytes_before_external_sort>3221225472</max_bytes_before_external_sort> <!-- 3 GB --> </default> </profiles> </clickhouse> ``` Some interesting settings to explain:

- Disabling both postgres/mysql interfaces will release some CPU/memory resources.
- Disabling some system tables like `processor_profile_log`, `opentelemetry_span_log`, or `query_thread_log` will help reducing write amplification. Those tables write a lot of data very frequently. In a Raspi4 with 4 GB of RAM and a simple USB3\.1 storage they can spend some needed resources.
- Decrease mark caches. Defaults are 5GB and they are loaded into RAM (in newer versions this behavior of loading them completely in RAM can be tuned with a prewarm setting <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/71053>
) so better to reserve a reasonable amount of space in line with the total amount of RAM. For example for 4/8GB 256MB is a good value.
- Tune server memory and leave 25% for OS ops (`max_server_memory_usage_to_ram_ratio`)
- Tune the thread pools and queues for merges and mutations:
	- `merge_max_block_size` will reduce the number of rows per block when merging. Default is 8192 and this will reduce the memory usage of merges.
	- The `number_of_free_entries_in_pool` settings are very nice to tune how much concurrent merges are allowed in the queue. When there is less than specified number of free entries in pool , start to lower maximum size of merge to process (or to put in queue) or do not execute part mutations to leave free threads for regular merges . This is to allow small merges to process \- not filling the pool with long running merges or multiple mutations. You can check clickhouse documentation to get more insights.
- Reduce the background pools and be conservative. In a Raspi4 with 4 cores and 4 GB or ram, background pool should be not bigger than the number of cores and even less if possible.
- Tune some profile settings to enable disk spilling (`max_bytes_before_external_group_by` and `max_bytes_before_external_sort`) and reduce the number of threads per query plus enable queuing of queries (`queue_max_wait_ms`) if the `max_concurrent_queries` limit is exceeded. Also `max_block_size` is not usually touched but in this case we can lower it ro reduce RAM usage.

Last modified 2026\.01\.20: [Configure memory settings for ClickHouse merges (11ca25d)](https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/11ca25dce06d98519f8741c6eb4b7288e1dcc14d)
