---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/use-cases/observability/clickstack/getting-started?loc=blog-cta-15-get-started-with-clickstack-today-get-started&utm_blogctaid=15)##
topic: using-event-patterns-in-clickstack-to-accelerate-observability-analysis
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

condensed view of your events grouped by similarity. Each cluster corresponds to a distinct log or event pattern, allowing you to instantly see which types of messages dominate the sample and which rare ones might warrant deeper investigation.

In the example above, we begin by filtering down to the **payment service**, then apply an **error filter**. Within seconds, event patterns surface an interesting and recurring error \- something that would have taken far longer to spot by scrolling through raw logs or iteratively refining search queries.

## How ClickStack implements event patterns [\#](/blog/event-patterns-clickstack#how-clickstack-implements-event-patterns)

Under the hood, event clustering in ClickStack is powered by [Drain3](https://github.com/logpai/Drain3), an open\-source, high\-performance log template mining library. Drain3 is an **online log clustering algorithm** that efficiently extracts templates, or “patterns”, from streams of log messages. It uses a fixed\-depth parse tree to guide how log groups are formed, avoiding the deep and unbalanced structures that can make other algorithms slow or memory\-heavy. This approach makes it fast enough to operate interactively, even on large log datasets.

We made a deliberate decision to integrate Drain3 **at query time** rather than at insert time. This design gives users the flexibility to discover and analyze patterns dynamically within any subset of their data, directly complementing the search experience. Running clustering at ingest would allow pre\-tagging of log patterns but would also introduce heavy overhead \- especially at ClickStack’s ingestion scales of gigabytes per second across petabytes of data. Performing the analysis on demand keeps ingestion lightweight and ensures the insights are always contextual and up to date.

Because Drain3 is written in Python, we use **Pyodide** to execute it directly in the browser. Pyodide is a full Python runtime compiled to WebAssembly that runs entirely client\-side, with no backend processing required. It supports much of the Python standard library and key data science packages such as numpy, pandas, and matplotlib. Using Pyodide allows ClickStack to run Drain3 seamlessly within the browser environment while still interacting with JavaScript for visualization and UI updates.
