---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/aggregatefunction.md)#
topic: aggregatefunction-type-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# AggregateFunction Type \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Data types](/docs/sql-reference/data-types)- AggregateFunction
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/aggregatefunction.md)# AggregateFunction Type

## Description[​](#description "Direct link to Description")

All [Aggregate functions](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions) in ClickHouse have
an implementation\-specific intermediate state that can be serialized to an
`AggregateFunction` data type and stored in a table. This is usually done by
means of a [materialized view](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/view).

There are two aggregate function [combinators](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/combinators)
commonly used with the `AggregateFunction` type:

- The [`-State`](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/combinators#-state) aggregate function combinator, which when appended to an aggregate
function name, produces `AggregateFunction` intermediate states.
- The [`-Merge`](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/combinators#-merge) aggregate
function combinator, which is used to get the final result of an aggregation
from the intermediate states.

## Syntax[​](#syntax "Direct link to Syntax")

```
AggregateFunction(aggregate_function_name, types_of_arguments...)

```

**Parameters**

- `aggregate_function_name` \- The name of an aggregate function. If the function
is parametric, then its parameters should be specified too.
- `types_of_arguments` \- The types of the aggregate function arguments.

for example:

```
CREATE TABLE t
(
    column1 AggregateFunction(uniq, UInt64),
    column2 AggregateFunction(anyIf, String, UInt8),
    column3 AggregateFunction(quantiles(0.5, 0.9), UInt64)
) ENGINE = ...

```

## Usage[​](#usage "Direct link to Usage")

### Data Insertion[​](#data-insertion "Direct link to Data Insertion")

To insert data into a table with columns of type `AggregateFunction`, you can
use `INSERT SELECT` with aggregate functions and the
[`-State`](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/combinators#-state) aggregate
function combinator.

For example, to insert into columns of type `AggregateFunction(uniq, UInt64)` and
`AggregateFunction(quantiles(0.5, 0.9), UInt64)` you would use the following
aggregate functions with combinators.

```
uniqState(UserID)
quantilesState(0.5, 0.9)(SendTiming)

```

In contrast to functions `uniq` and `quantiles`, `uniqState` and `quantilesState`
(with `-State` combinator appended) return the state, rather than the final value.
In other words, they return a value of `AggregateFunction` type.

In the results of the `SELECT` query, values of type `AggregateFunction` have
implementation\-specific binary representations for all of the ClickHouse output
formats.

There is a special Session level setting `aggregate_function_input_format` that allows to build state from the input values.
It supports the following formats:
