---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/aggregatefunction.md)#
topic: aggregatefunction-type-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

query, values of type `AggregateFunction` have implementation\-specific binary representations for all of the ClickHouse output formats. There is a special Session level setting `aggregate_function_input_format` that allows to build state from the input values. It supports the following formats:

- `state` \- binary string with the serialized state (the default).
If you dump data into, for example, the `TabSeparated` format with a `SELECT`
query, then this dump can be loaded back using the `INSERT` query.
- `value` \- the format will expect a single value of the argument of the aggregate function, or in the case of multiple arguments, a tuple of them; that will be deserialized to form the relevant state
- `array` \- the format will expect an Array of values, as described in the values option above; all the elements of the array will be aggregated to form the state

### Data Selection[窶犠(#data-selection "Direct link to Data Selection")

When selecting data from `AggregatingMergeTree` table, use the `GROUP BY` clause
and the same aggregate functions as for when you inserted the data, but use the
[`-Merge`](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/combinators#-merge) combinator.

An aggregate function with the `-Merge` combinator appended to it takes a set of
states, combines them, and returns the result of the complete data aggregation.

For example, the following two queries return the same result:

```
SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM table

SELECT uniqMerge(state) FROM (SELECT uniqState(UserID) AS state FROM table GROUP BY RegionID)

```

## Usage Example[窶犠(#usage-example "Direct link to Usage Example")

See [AggregatingMergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/aggregatingmergetree) engine description.

## Related Content[窶犠(#related-content "Direct link to Related Content")

- Blog: [Using Aggregate Combinators in ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/aggregate-functions-combinators-in-clickhouse-for-arrays-maps-and-states)
- [MergeState](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/combinators#-mergestate)
combinator.
- [State](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/combinators#-state) combinator.
[PreviousNullable(T)](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/nullable)[NextSimpleAggregateFunction](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/simpleaggregatefunction)- [Description](#description)- [Syntax](#syntax)- [Usage](#usage)
	- [Data Insertion](#data-insertion)- [Data Selection](#data-selection)- [Usage Example](#usage-example)- [Related Content](#related-content)
Was this page helpful?
