---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/timeSeriesLastTwoSamples.md)#
topic: timeserieslasttwosamples-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '12.870'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

# timeSeriesLastTwoSamples \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Functions](/docs/sql-reference/functions)- [Aggregate functions](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions)- [Aggregate Functions](/docs/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference)- timeSeriesLastTwoSamples
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/timeSeriesLastTwoSamples.md)# timeSeriesLastTwoSamples

## timeSeriesLastTwoSamples[​](#timeSeriesLastTwoSamples "Direct link to timeSeriesLastTwoSamples")

Introduced in: v25\.6\.0

Aggregate function for re\-sampling time series data for PromQL\-like irate and idelta calculation.

Aggregate function that takes time series data as pairs of timestamps and values and stores only at most 2 recent samples. This aggregate function is intended to be used with a Materialized View and Aggregated table that stores re\-sampled time series data for grid\-aligned timestamps.

The aggregated table stores only last 2 values for each aligned timestamp. This allows to calculate PromQL\-like `irate` and `idelta` by reading much less data then is stored in the raw table.

NoteThis function is experimental, enable it by setting `allow_experimental_ts_to_grid_aggregate_function=true`.

**Syntax**

```
timeSeriesLastTwoSamples(timestamp, value)

```

**Arguments**

- `timestamp` — Timestamp of the sample. [`DateTime`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/datetime) or [`DateTime64`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/datetime64) or [`(U)Int*`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint) or [`Int*`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint)
- `value` — Value of the time series corresponding to the timestamp. [`Float32`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/float) or [`Float64`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/float)

**Returned value**

Returns a pair of arrays of equal length from 0 to 2\. The first array contains the timestamps of sampled time series, the second array contains the corresponding values of the time series. [`Tuple(Array(DateTime), Array(Float64))`](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/tuple)

**Examples**

**Example table for raw data, and a table for storing re\-sampled data**
