---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

this post, we provide an example of a real\-time analytics application that has the ability to analyze downloads for Python packages over time. This application is powered by the PyPI dataset, which consists of almost 600 billion rows.

We identify representative queries to power a real\-time application, benchmark the performance of both ClickHouse and Snowflake using this workload, and perform an analysis of the costs – the cost of running the benchmark itself, as well as the projected ongoing cost of running the application in production.

Based on this analysis, we believe ClickHouse can provide significant performance and cost improvements compared to Snowflake for real\-time analytics use cases. Our results show that:

- **ClickHouse Cloud is 3\-5x more cost\-effective than Snowflake in production.**
- **ClickHouse Cloud querying speeds are over 2x faster compared to Snowflake.**
- **ClickHouse Cloud results in 38% better data compression than Snowflake.**

The information and methodology needed to replicate this benchmark analysis is also publicly available at <https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>.

## Benchmarks [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#benchmarks)

In the following section, we compare the insert and query performance for ClickHouse and Snowflake, as well as the compression achieved, for the queries of a proposed application. For all tests, we use GCE\-hosted instances in us\-central\-1 since the test dataset below is most easily exported to GCS.

We use production instances of a ClickHouse Cloud service for our examples with a total of 177, 240, and 256 vCPUs. For Snowflake, we have predominantly used either a 2X\-LARGE or 4X\-LARGE cluster, which we believe to possess 256 and 512 vCPUs (it is [generally understood](https://select.dev/posts/snowflake-warehouse-sizing) that each node consists of 8 vCPUs, 16GiB, and 200GB of local storage), respectively \- the former representing the closest configuration to our ClickHouse clusters. While some of the Snowflake configurations provide an obvious compute advantage over the above ClickHouse clusters, ClickHouse Cloud has a greater `cpu:memory` ratio (1 for ClickHouse vs. 1 for Snowflake) offsetting some of this advantage; however, the offset is not significant for this benchmark because the queries are not memory\-intensive.
