---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

requests; neither does it test for system capacity. While we would expect ClickHouse to perform well under highly concurrent workloads, this test is significantly more complex to execute fairly and interpret results from. ### Assumptions \& limitations [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#assumptions--limitations)

In effort to make this benchmark easy to reproduce with a high number of configurations, and the results simple to interpret, we made some assumptions to constrain the scope of the exercise. A full list of assumptions and limitations can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake#limitations), but most notably:

- We did not evaluate [Snowflake's multi\-cluster warehouse](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/warehouses-multicluster#benefits-of-multi-cluster-warehouses) feature. While not applicable to our test workload, this would be invaluable in scaling throughput for a production application. The approach has merits and contrasts with ClickHouse Cloud, where services are scaled by adding nodes.
- Snowflake's persistent cache adds significant value. In addition to being robust to warehouse restarts, the cache is fully distributed and independent of warehouses. This ensures a high rate of cache hits. While ClickHouse Cloud has a query cache faster than Snowflake’s, it is currently per node (although a distributed cache is planned).
- We have not evaluated the [query acceleration service](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/query-acceleration-service) from Snowflake. This service offloads query processing work to shared compute resources for specific queries at significant [additional cost](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/query-acceleration-service#query-acceleration-service-cost). However, Snowflake states that query acceleration service depends on server availability and performance improvements might fluctuate over time, making it not a great fit for reproducible benchmarks.

### Schemas [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#schemas)

#### ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#clickhouse)

Our ClickHouse schema is shown below:
