---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

( timestamp TIMESTAMP, country_code varchar, url varchar, project varchar, file OBJECT, installer OBJECT, python varchar, implementation OBJECT, distro VARIANT, system OBJECT, cpu varchar, openssl_version varchar, setuptools_version varchar, rustc_version varchar, tls_protocol varchar, tls_cipher varchar ) DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS = 0; ```

Snowflake does not require VARCHAR columns to have a limit specified, with no performance or storage penalty, simplifying the declaration significantly. We optimize the schema by declaring the table as [TRANSIENT](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/tables-temp-transient#transient-tables) and disabling time travel (`DATA_RETENTION_TIME_IN_DAYS = 0`). The former turns off Snowflake’s [fail\-safe feature](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-failsafe), which retains a copy of the data for seven days for emergency recovery, which is not required in our case and reduces costs. ClickHouse Cloud supports backups, providing a similar function to failsafe \- these are incorporated into the storage cost. While powerful, the time travel feature, which allows historical data to be queried, is not required for our real\-time analytics.

> An astute reader will have noticed the above schemas are not the same as the original BigQuery schema, which has an additional level of nesting with some columns underneath a `details` column. We have removed this [extra level at export time](https://pastila.nl/?001e53a9/e2bebfba9b6badf525a355868fdc3463) to simplify the schema for both ClickHouse and Snowflake. This makes subsequent queries simpler.

Initially we have not specified a clustering key, but we do it in further experiments, once data is loaded.

### Results [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#results)

These tests were performed on ClickHouse 23\.6, unless stated, and in the first 2 weeks of June for Snowflake.

#### Summary [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#summary-1)

Based on our benchmarking results, we can draw the following conclusions when comparing Snowflake and ClickHouse's performance for this scenario:
