---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

on ClickHouse 23\.6, unless stated, and in the first 2 weeks of June for Snowflake. #### Summary [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#summary-1) Based on our benchmarking results, we can draw the following conclusions when comparing Snowflake and ClickHouse's performance for this scenario:

- ClickHouse offers up to 38% better compression than the best offered by Snowflake with clustering enabled.
- Clustering in Snowflake improves compression by up to 45% in our tests. This feature appears essential for query performance to be remotely competitive with ClickHouse, especially when filtering on ordering keys. However, it comes at significant costs due to the background processes responsible for ordering the data.
- ClickHouse is up to 2x faster at loading data than Snowflake, even with a comparable number of vCPUs and when ignoring the time required for Snowflake to cluster data. This also assumes file sizes are optimal for Snowflake \- it appears to perform significantly worse on smaller files.
- A workload where queries can exploit a clustering/ordering key is the most common in real\-time analytics use cases. In this scenario, ClickHouse is 2\-3x faster for hot queries than a Snowflake warehouse which has more vCPUs (177 vs. 256\) and is configured with an equivalent optimized clustering key. This performance difference is maintained across all tests, even when aggregating by columns on which the ClickHouse and Snowflake tables are not ordered/clustered by.
- The difference in cold queries is less dramatic, but ClickHouse still outperforms Snowflake by 1\.5 to 2x. Furthermore, clustering comes at a significant additional cost. For further details, also see [Cost analysis](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#cost-analysis).
- Materialized views in Snowflake are comparable to ClickHouse projections, albeit with more restrictions, and offer strong performance gains for queries. For our limited workload, these offered greater improvement than projections, even still, mean performance is 1\.5x slower than ClickHouse.
- Snowflake is around 30% faster than ClickHouse on GROUP BY queries which cannot efficiently exploit ordering/clustering keys and are forced to scan more data. This can partially be attributed to the higher number of vCPUs but also its ability to distribute work across nodes efficiently. The equivalent feature in ClickHouse, parallel replicas, is currently experimental and subject to further improvements.
- For queries that require full table scans, such as LIKE, Snowflake offers more consistent query performance with lower 95/99th percentiles than ClickHouse, but higher mean performance.
- Secondary indices in ClickHouse are comparable in performance for LIKE queries to Snowflakes Search Optimization Service, with better hot performance, but slightly slower cold performance. Whereas this feature in ClickHouse adds minimal cost, with only slightly raised storage, it adds significant expense in Snowflake \- see [Cost analysis](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#cost-analysis).
