---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

queries to Snowflakes Search Optimization Service, with better hot performance, but slightly slower cold performance. Whereas this feature in ClickHouse adds minimal cost, with only slightly raised storage, it adds significant expense in Snowflake \- see [Cost analysis](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#cost-analysis).

Full results are detailed below.

#### Data loading [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#data-loading)

To evaluate the load performance of ClickHouse and Snowflake, we tested several service and warehouse sizes with comparable CPU and memory resources.

Full details of data loading and the commands used can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake/blob/main/README.md#schemas-and-data-loading). We have optimized insert performance into both ClickHouse and Snowflake. With the former, we use a number of settings focused on distributing inserts and ensuring data is written in large batches. For Snowflake, we have followed [documented best practices](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-load-considerations-prepare) and ensured Parquet files are around 150MiB.

> To improve ClickHouse insert performance, we tuned the number of threads as noted [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake/blob/main/README.md#clickhouse). This causes a large number of parts to be formed, which must be merged in the background. High part counts negatively impact SELECT performance, so we report the total time taken for merges to reduce the part count to under 3000 (default recommended total) \- queries for this [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake/tree/main/insert_performance#misc). This is the value compared to Snowflake’s total load time.
