---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

we compare the best results for a 2X\-LARGE (256 vCPUs) vs. 960GB (240 vCPUs), which have similar resources, **ClickHouse delivers over 2x the insert performance of Snowflake for the same number of vCPUs**. Other observations from this test:

- On clusters with fewer nodes but more vCPUs per node (e.g. 708GB configuration), ClickHouse completes the initial insert operation faster. However, time is then spent merging parts below an acceptable threshold. While multiple merges can occur on a node at any time, the total number per node is limited. Spreading our resources across more nodes (960GB has 8 x 30 core nodes), allows more concurrent merges to occur, resulting in a faster completion time (these higher levels of configurations can be requested in ClickHouse Cloud by contacting support).
- To achieve maximum load performance, Snowflake needs as many files as vCPUs. We hypothesize this is because reading within Parquet files is not parallelized, [unlike ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing-internals-row-groups#parallelized-reads). While this is not an issue on our dataset, this makes scaling inserts challenging in other scenarios.
- Snowflake recommends ensuring Parquet files are around 150MiB. The full PyPi dataset, consisting of over 1\.5M files and 19TiB, has a much smaller average file size of 13MiB. Since we did not expect ClickHouse to be appreciably impacted by file size, we followed Snowflake’s recommendation of 150MiB.

*To test the differences in behavior on small Parquet files, we imported a 69B row sample of the PyPi dataset into both ClickHouse and Snowflake. This sample, which consists of exactly 3 months of data, can be found under the bucket `gs://clickhouse_public_datasets/pypi/file_downloads/2023_may_aug/` and consists of 1\.06TiB of Parquet split over 109,448 files for an average size of 10MiB. While Snowflake total load time does not appear to be appreciably impacted by these smaller file sizes, ClickHouse actually benefits and outperforms Snowflake by \~35%. While this test was conducted on a later version of ClickHouse 23\.8, further testing does suggest ClickHouse is faster on 10MiB files vs. 150MiB. We did not test other file sizes. Full results can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake/tree/main/insert_performance/small_files).*
