---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

\~35%. While this test was conducted on a later version of ClickHouse 23\.8, further testing does suggest ClickHouse is faster on 10MiB files vs. 150MiB. We did not test other file sizes. Full results can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake/tree/main/insert_performance/small_files).*

- Snowflake exhibits linear improvements in load time to the number of vCPUs. This means the total cost to the user remains constant, i.e. a 4X\-LARGE warehouse is twice the cost of a 2X\-LARGE, but the load time is half. The user can, in turn, make the warehouse idle on completion, incurring the same total charge. ClickHouse Cloud’s new feature, [SharedMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-cloud-boosts-performance-with-sharedmergetree-and-lightweight-updates), also ensures insert performance scales linearly with resources. While the above benchmark test results use the ClickHouse standard MergeTree, due to when these benchmarks were conducted, examples of results demonstrating linear scalability for SharedMergeTree with this dataset can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake/tree/main/insert_performance/shared_merge_tree).
- The above does not include any clustering time for Snowflake. Clustering, as shown below, is required for query performance to be competitive with ClickHouse. However, if clustering times are included in the comparison, Snowflake insert times become significantly higher than ClickHouse \- this is challenging to measure precisely, as clustering is asynchronous, and its scheduling is non\-deterministic.

Further observations from this test can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake/tree/main/insert_performance).

#### Storage efficiency \& compression [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#storage-efficiency--compression)

Our earlier ClickHouse schema is mostly optimized for maximum compression. As shown below, it can be further improved by applying a delta codec to the `date` and `timestamp` columns, although this was shown to have side effects concerning performance on cold queries.

By default, a Snowflake schema does not include clustering. Clustering is configured by setting the clustering key, the choice of which heavily impacts data compression. In order to thoroughly evaluate Snowflake compression rates, we’ve thus tested various clustering keys and recorded the resulting total compressed data size for each, illustrated below.

Full details on our compression results and how this was measured can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake/tree/main/compression).
