---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

thoroughly evaluate Snowflake compression rates, we’ve thus tested various clustering keys and recorded the resulting total compressed data size for each, illustrated below. Full details on our compression results and how this was measured can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake/tree/main/compression).

| Database | ORDER BY/CLUSTER BY | Total size (TiB) | Compression ratio on Parquet |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Snowflake | \- | 1\.99 | 4\.39 |
| Snowflake | (to\_date(timestamp), project) | 1\.33 | 6\.57 |
| Snowflake | (project) | 1\.52 | 5\.75 |
| Snowflake | (project, to\_date(timestamp)) | 1\.77 | 4\.94 |
| Snowflake | (project, timestamp)\* | 1\.05 | 8\.32 |
| ClickHouse | (project, date, timestamp) | 0\.902 | 9\.67 |
| ClickHouse | (project, date, timestamp) \+ delta codec | 0\.87 | 10\.05 |





| Most optional query performance |
| --- |
| Most optimal compression |




> Note that we were unable to identify an uncompressed size for Snowflake and are unable to provide a compression ratio similar to ClickHouse. We have thus computed a compression ratio to Parquet.

Clustering in Snowflake is essential for good compression and query performance in our use case. The best clustering key chosen for our Snowflake schema resulted in reducing the data size by 40%. Despite including the extra column `date`, **the best compression in ClickHouse is nonetheless better than the most optimal Snowflake configuration by almost 20% (0\.87TiB vs. 1\.05TiB).**

That said, the best\-performing clustering key for Snowflake, with respect to compression, did not result in the best Snowflake query performance. Snowflake users are therefore presented with a tradeoff – optimize for compression (and thus storage costs) or have faster queries.

For our benchmark analysis, the objective is to support a real\-time analytics workload, for which fast querying is essential. Therefore, the clustering key used for the remainder of our benchmarks is the clustering key that benefits querying speed over compression, and also adheres to Snowflake’s published best practices which recommends the lower cardinality column first. This is the `(to_date(timestamp), project)` clustering key.

**Based on the configurations and schemas optimized for query speed, our results show that ClickHouse Cloud outperforms Snowflake in compression by 38% (0\.902TiB vs. 1\.33TiB).**

#### Clustering time \& costs in Snowflake [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#clustering-time--costs-in-snowflake)
