---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

the `(to_date(timestamp), project)` clustering key. **Based on the configurations and schemas optimized for query speed, our results show that ClickHouse Cloud outperforms Snowflake in compression by 38% (0\.902TiB vs. 1\.33TiB).** #### Clustering time \& costs in Snowflake [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#clustering-time--costs-in-snowflake)

As described by the [Snowflake documentation](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/tables-auto-reclustering#credit-usage-and-warehouses-for-automatic-clustering), clustering incurs tradeoffs. While improving query performance, users will be charged credits by the use of this asynchronous service. We have attempted to capture the total credits (and cost) required for each of the above clustering keys below and the time taken for clustering to stabilize. Time consumed here is an estimate as Snowflake provides only hour\-level granularity in its [AUTOMATIC\_CLUSTERING\_HISTORY view](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/tables-auto-reclustering#viewing-automatic-clustering-cost). See here for the query used to compute clustering costs.

| CLUSTER BY | Time taken (mins) | Rows clustered | Bytes clustered | Credits used | Total cost (assuming standard) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| (to\_date(timestamp), project) | 540 | 53818118911 | 1893068905149 | 450 | $990 |
| (project) | 360 | 41243645440 | 1652448880719 | 283 | $566 |
| (project, to\_date(timestamp)) | 180 | 56579552438 | 1315724687124 | 243 | $486 |
| (project, timestamp) | 120 | 50957022860 | 1169499869415 | 149 | $298 |



The timings in the table above can be considered in addition to the insert performance tests. Effective clustering, where a large number of the bytes are clustered, appears to incur a significant cost with respect to credits and time in Snowflake.

The equivalent feature in ClickHouse (using an ORDER BY) incurs no additional charges and it is required by default for all tables. Additional ordering can be added to ClickHouse tables through projections. In this case users pay for additional storage only. Projections and ordering only incur incremental compute and memory overhead to sort data at insert time and perform background merges. CPU and memory used by background processes have a lower priority than queries and usually utilize idle resources on an existing service. Completion of these background operations is not required for queries to run and observe updated data, but improve performance of future queries.

#### Querying [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#querying)
