---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 23
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

scenario, changing data would invalidate these cache benefits in most real\-time analytics use cases.** - For cold queries, ClickHouse benefits from higher CPU\-to\-memory ratios, outperforming Snowflake by 1\.5 to 2x, depending on the metric. ## Cost analysis [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#cost-analysis)

In this section, we compare the costs of ClickHouse Cloud and Snowflake. To achieve this, we calculate the cost of running our benchmarks, considering data loading, storage, and completing all queries. This analysis also highlights the additional costs incurred to make Snowflake a viable solution to real\-time analytics and competitive in performance with ClickHouse Cloud. Finally, we provide a simple costing for a production service using the 2 comparable service/warehouse sizes used in our testing.

**Our results demonstrate that ClickHouse Cloud is more cost effective than Snowflake across every dimension. Specifically,**

To run our benchmarks:

- Data loading: **Snowflake is at a minimum 5x more expensive to load data than ClickHouse Cloud**.
- Querying: **Querying costs in Snowflake are at a minimum 7x more expensive** than ClickHouse Cloud, with Snowflake queries running in tens of seconds, and ClickHouse Cloud queries returning in seconds or less. To bring Snowflake to **comparable query performance, Snowflake is 15x more expensive** than ClickHouse Cloud.

For a production system:

Snowflake is at a minimum 3x more expensive than ClickHouse Cloud when projecting costs of a production workload running our benchmark queries. To bring Snowflake to **comparable performance to ClickHouse Cloud, Snowflake is 5x more expensive** than ClickHouse Cloud for these production workloads.

### Base costs [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#base-costs)

ClickHouse and Snowflake services/warehouses have the following costs per hour:

- Snowflake: 2X\-LARGE \- 32 credits per hour. Credit cost depends on tier. We assume the standard tier ($2 per credit) unless otherwise stated, which is $64 per hour.
- ClickHouse: 708GB, 177 core ClickHouse Service \- $0\.6888 per hour per 6 CPUs, $20\.3196 per hour.
- ClickHouse: 960GB, 240 core ClickHouse Service \- $0\.6888 per hour per 6 CPUs, $27\.552 per hour.

### Benchmarking cost [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#benchmarking-cost)

#### Summary [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#summary-2)
