---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 26
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

clustering key applied, is **over 7\.7s** (2X\-LARGE). This compares to [0\.28s and 0\.75s](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake/tree/main/downloads_per_day#hot-queries) seconds for ClickHouse (708GB) and Snowflake respectively, when an optimal clustering key is applied. Based on this contrast, all subsequent benchmarks applied clustering to Snowflake.

#### Bulk data load [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#bulk-data-load)

We assume that Snowflake warehouses and ClickHouse services are active only for the period of data load and immediately paused, once the data has been inserted. In the case of ClickHouse, we allow time for merges to reduce parts to under the recommended limit of 3000\.

| Database | Specification | Number of vCPUs | Cost per hour ($) | Time for data load (seconds) | Bulk Data load cost ($) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Snowflake (standard) | 2X\-LARGE | 256 | 64 | 11410 | 202 |
| Snowflake (enterprise) | 2X\-LARGE | 256 | 96 | 11410 | 304 |
| ClickHouse | 708GB | 177 | 20\.3196 | 10400 (174 mins) | 59 |
| ClickHouse | 960GB | 240 | 27\.552 | 5391 (90 mins) | 41 |


**Snowflake costs 5x more for data loading than ClickHouse Cloud for our use case.**

Our approach to data load used an external stage. This incurs no charges. Users who use an internal Snowflake stage for files will incur additional charges not included here.

#### Clustering costs [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#clustering-costs)

As described above, Snowflake’s query performance was over 7 seconds without clustering enabled \- this is far too slow for a real\-time application. Our tests and benchmarks thus enable clustering to ensure more competitive query performance.

Clustering on the `to_date(timestamp), project` key consumed 450 credits. This is $900 if using the Standard tier, and $1350, if using Enterprise features. No additional cost is incurred with ClickHouse Cloud for specifying an ordering key, a comparable feature in ClickHouse.

**If we consider clustering, on the Standard tier, as part of the data loading cost, Snowflake is 27x ($900 \+ $203 \= $1103\) more expensive than ClickHouse Cloud. This does not consider the ongoing charges for Snowflake clustering, which are incurred when the data is updated after inserts.**

#### Storage [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#storage)
