---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 27
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

loading cost, Snowflake is 27x ($900 \+ $203 \= $1103\) more expensive than ClickHouse Cloud. This does not consider the ongoing charges for Snowflake clustering, which are incurred when the data is updated after inserts.** #### Storage [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#storage)

Snowflake and ClickHouse Cloud charge the following for storage in GCP us\-central\-1, where our benchmark was conducted. Other regions may differ, but we do not expect this to be a significant proportion of the total cost in either case. Both Snowflake and ClickHouse consider the compressed size of the data.

- ClickHouse \- $47\.10 per compressed TB/month
- Snowflake \- $46 per compressed TB/month

Note that the above ClickHouse storage cost includes two days of backups (one every 24 hrs). For equivalent retention in Snowflake, we assume a permanent table will be used for Snowflake in production, with 1 day of time travel. This also provides seven days of failsafe support by default. Given our data is immutable and append\-only, we would expect [low churn in our tables](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/tables-storage-considerations#managing-costs-for-large-high-churn-tables) and only pay the incremental cost for new data in time travel beyond the initial copy \- we estimate this to be about [8% every 7 days](https://pastila.nl/?03082e70/693c60893b8cf9cb9856b37311dff028). We have thus estimated a multiplier of 1\.08 for Snowflake.

We assume the clustering/ordering keys are used in most of our benchmarks. Using these charges, we compute a total cost for the month.

| **Database** | **ORDER BY/CLUSTER BY** | **Total size (TB)** | **Cost per TB ($)** | **Backup multiplier** | **Cost per month ($)** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Snowflake | (to\_date(timestamp), project) | 1\.33 | 46\* | 1\.08 (for time travel) | $66\.07 |
| ClickHouse | (project, date, timestamp) | 0\.902 | 47\.10 | 1 | $42\.48 |


*\*on demand pricing*

The above costing indicates that Snowflake is 1\.5x more expensive for storage. However, this assumes on\-demand storage pricing for Snowflake. The price per TB is reduced to $20 if storage is pre\-purchased. Assuming the user is able to exploit this, the total cost for storage is estimated as $28\.73\.

#### Queries [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#queries)
