---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 28
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

assumes on\-demand storage pricing for Snowflake. The price per TB is reduced to $20 if storage is pre\-purchased. Assuming the user is able to exploit this, the total cost for storage is estimated as $28\.73\. #### Queries [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#queries)

Estimating costs in Snowflake is complex. Some of Snowflake’s fastest query performance relies on the use of non\-standard features, such as materialized views and the Search Optimization Service, which are only available in the Enterprise tier. This increases the per\-credit cost to $3\. These services also incur additional charges, e.g. materialized views [incur a background maintenance cost.](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/views-materialized#materialized-views-cost) Snowflake provides means of computing these, e.g. for [materialized views](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/views-materialized#viewing-costs).

To estimate the cost of queries, we have used the configuration identified as the best performing for each query type assuming a Snowflake 2X\-LARGE warehouse and 708GB ClickHouse service.

For Snowflake, we therefore compute 2 pricings \- Enterprise and standard. For all calculations, we use the total execution time for the fastest configuration, given the tier, and optimistically assume the warehouse is immediately paused once the test is complete. For ClickHouse timings, we round up to the nearest minute.

We do not include initial Snowflake clustering charges for the main table and assume these are incurred as part of the data load. We do, however, consider clustering charges for materialized views.

> We ignore results where query caching is enabled. We assume that a production instance would be subject to changes and updates invalidating the cache. In production, we would still recommend enabling this for both databases. As the caching results are comparable, we would not expect a meaningful impact on the ratio of costs.

**ClickHouse**
