---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 31
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

minimum 7x more expensive than ClickHouse Cloud for our benchmark tests. For Snowflake query performance to be comparable to ClickHouse Cloud's, Snowflake requires Enterprise tier features, which dramatically increases Snowflake's cost to 15x more expensive than ClickHouse Cloud.**

From the above, it is clear that querying costs in Snowflake can quickly snowball, if Enterprise features are used. While they nearly always appreciably improve performance, the saving in run time does not always offset the increase in per unit cost. Users are thus left trying to identify the most cost effective way to execute each query. In comparison, ClickHouse pricing is simple \- there are no additional charges for features that speed up queries.

In the above scenario, we have also assumed standard Snowflake pricing is still possible for tests where Enterprise features are not required. This leads to slightly reduced costs in the Snowflake results above, but is not realistic in production, where even using one Enterprise feature to accelerate a query will immediately cause all other queries in Snowflake to increase in cost by 1\.5x. Addressing this requires complex configurations and possible data duplication.

### Estimating production costs [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis#estimating-production-costs)

The above benchmarking costing, while useful to highlight how costs with Snowflake can quickly add up, is difficult to extrapolate to a production scenario.

For a simple pricing model, we thus make the following assumptions:

- Our warehouse and service will be running all the time, with no idle time, because it is constantly ingesting data and serving real\-time queries.
- While the full dataset is almost 10x in size, we also assume that 3 months of data is sufficient for our application.
- A 2X\-LARGE and 708GB warehouse/service offer sufficient performance with respect to latency for our application.
- A 2X\-LARGE and 708GB warehouse/service would be able to handle the required query concurrency of a production application.
- A 2X\-LARGE and 708GB warehouse/service would not be appreciably impacted by new data being added.
- For Snowflake, we assume clustering costs are not significant (a highly optimistic assumption for Snowflake) after initial load.
- We can ignore initial data load costs here, since the warehouse/services will be running all the time.
