---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 32
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

added. - For Snowflake, we assume clustering costs are not significant (a highly optimistic assumption for Snowflake) after initial load. - We can ignore initial data load costs here, since the warehouse/services will be running all the time.

With these assumptions, our production cost thus becomes the storage cost and time to run each warehouse and service. We present two costs for this scenario for Snowflake: Standard and Enterprise. While the latter delivers response times more competitive with ClickHouse Cloud, it comes with a 1\.5x cost multiplier for Snowflake.

For ClickHouse, we assume the use of materialized views and projections where possible \- these add no measurable additional cost.

Finally, we also provide pricing for a 4X\-LARGE Snowflake service. Users might be tempted to use this configuration with no clustering. While queries will be slower, Snowflake has demonstrated linear scalability \- queries should thus be 4x faster than a 2X\-LARGE with no clustering. This performance may be acceptable e.g. queries in the `Downloads per day` test with a mean of 7\.7s on a 2X\-LARGE should take less than 2s on a 4X\-LARGE.

| Database | Specification | Compute Cost per hour ($) | Compute Cost per month ($) | Data Storage Cost per month ($) | Total Cost per month ($) |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Snowflake (standard) | 2X\-LARGE | 64 | $46,080 | $28\.73 | $46,108 |
| Snowflake (Enterprise) | 2X\-LARGE | 96 | $69,120 | $28\.73 | $69,148 |
| Snowflake (standard) | 4X\-LARGE | 256 | $184,320 | $28\.73 | $184,348 |
| ClickHouse | 708GB | 20\.3196 | $14,630 | $42\.48 | $14,672 |



**The above shows Snowflake is over 3x more expensive to run a production application than ClickHouse Cloud. For comparable performance between both systems, through Enterprise tier features, users pay 4\.7x more with Snowflake compared to ClickHouse Cloud.**

In reality, we would expect this difference to be much larger, since numbers above ignore additional Snowflake charges, including:
