---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse_vs_snowflake>
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-and-cost-analysis
ch_version_introduced: '3.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 33
total_chunks_in_doc: 34
---

comparable performance between both systems, through Enterprise tier features, users pay 4\.7x more with Snowflake compared to ClickHouse Cloud.** In reality, we would expect this difference to be much larger, since numbers above ignore additional Snowflake charges, including:

- Clustering charges as new data is added. We have ignored these charges in Snowflake to simplify pricing, but our benchmarking costs showed them to be significant. Using a 4XLARGE with no clustering is not viable and is unlikely to be competitive as shown.
- Charges to maintain materialized views in Snowflake, if used. These, especially if combined with clustering, can be substantial, as shown by our benchmarking costs.
- Data transfer costs. These [can be incurred](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/cost-understanding-data-transfer#snowflake-features-that-incur-transfer-costs) in Snowflake, depending on the [regions involved](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/cost-exploring-data-transfer). ClickHouse Cloud does not charge for data transfer costs.
- Data staging costs were not incurred in our testing, as we used an external stage and simply imported data from a GCS bucket. Internal stages do [incur charges](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/tables-storage-considerations#staged-file-storage-for-data-loading) in Snowflake and may be required in some cases. ClickHouse Cloud has no concept of stages.

Real\-world scenarios impose additional restrictions. After benchmarking different specifications of systems, decisions on an actual size should be made. Parameters of the given workload have direct implications during capacity planning. Those can be hard limits to process some workload during a period of time, or capacity to process a number of parallel queries with low latencies. In any case, some amount of work needs to be done over a period of time.

Below, you can see an example of how the amount of work per day differs, if we utilize 100% time of a cluster and run one benchmark at a time.
