---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://clickhouse-driver.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
topic: integrations-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.7'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 19
total_chunks_in_doc: 33
---

it which is not simple). TLDR: CatBoost is fast, produces awesome models, is super easy to deploy and it’s easy to use/train (after becoming familiar with it despite the bad documentation \& if you know data science terms).

## Regarding MindsDB

The project seems to be a good idea but it’s too young. I was using the GUI version and I’ve encountered some bugs, and none of those bugs have a good error message.

- It won’t show data in preview.
- The “download” button won’t work.
- It’s trying to create and drop tables in ClickHouse without me asking it to.
- Other than bugs:

	- It will only use 1 core to do everything (training, analysis, download).
	- Analysis will only run with a very small subset of data, if I use something like 1M rows it never finishes.
- Training a model on 100k rows took 25 minutes \- (CatBoost takes 90s to train with 1M rows)
- The model trained on MindsDB is way worse. It had r\-squared of 0\.46 (CatBoost\=0\.58\)

To me it seems that they are a plugin which connects ClickHouse to MySQL to run the model in Pytorch.

It’s too complex and hard to debug and understand. The resulting model is not good enough.

TLDR: Easy to use (if bugs are ignored), too slow to train \& produces a bad model.
# 8 \- Google S3 (GCS)

GCS with the table function \- seems to work correctly for simple scenarios.

Essentially you can follow the steps from the [Migrating from Amazon S3 to Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/aws-simple-migration)
.

1. Set up a GCS bucket.
2. This bucket must be set as part of the default project for the account. This configuration can be found in settings \-\> interoperability.
3. Generate a HMAC key for the account, can be done in settings \-\> interoperability, in the section for user account access keys.
4. In ClickHouse®, replace the S3 bucket endpoint with the GCS bucket endpoint This must be done with the path\-style GCS endpoint: `https://storage.googleapis.com/BUCKET_NAME/OBJECT_NAME`.
5. Replace the aws access key id and aws secret access key with the corresponding parts of the HMAC key.
# 9 \- Kafka engine

Kafka engine## librdkafka changelog

This changelog tracks the librdkafka version bundled with ClickHouse and notable related fixes.
