---
source: blog
url: https://www.synq.io/
topic: building-a-unified-data-platform-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

therefore needed an underlying data platform to comfortably serve our end\-user\-facing applications with sub\-second latencies in low hundreds of milliseconds. We had a demanding combination of requirements—elastic ingest performance, flexible internal transformations, and support for low latency queries.

As we started building the core of our system, we began with Postgres with a time series plugin. It was sufficient to support our initial development, but we knew we would outgrow it. The decision point to look for a new platform came after seeing suboptimal performance for large backfill jobs. After running tests on various platforms, including leading data warehouse providers, we could frequently hit two of the above requirements but only some of the three.

Until we found ClickHouse.

It took a few days of testing to realize it was a perfect match. Even with small clusters, we could ingest tens of thousands of rows per second; we quickly put [ClickHouse Materialised Views](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/special/materializedview) to use to create query\-specific data models and saw query latencies in hundreds of milliseconds which checked all three requirements. In all our tests ClickHouse maintained consistent read query performance under heavy ingest load.

To focus our entire development team on the R\&D of our platform, we partnered with [ClickHouse Cloud](https://console.clickhouse.cloud/). We were, from the beginning, impressed by the stability. Our ClickHouse platform always reliably served application queries, even under immense pressure.

## Building the Basics [\#](/blog/building-a-unified-data-platform-with-clickhouse#building-the-basics)

The first challenge was to build a solid ingestion. Our system is written in Go, and we chose the officially maintained Go client clickhouse\-go. Our ingestion microservice consumes data from a durable queue and pushes data to ClickHouse as it arrives.
We quickly realized that without extra treatment, this was a naive approach. Our system would frequently insert thousands of requests with just a handful of rows, which is not optimal for ingesting data to ClickHouse. As a result, we saw the number of parts in our tables exploding as the ClickHouse engine couldn’t merge them fast enough. The cluster started to protect itself by timing out our inserts.

We had to evolve our approach.

Due to traffic which can spike, we wanted to avoid buffering any events in our system. It would cause large memory spikes and potential OOM errors under heavy load, so buffering in application code wasn’t an option.
