---
source: blog
url: https://www.synq.io/
topic: building-a-unified-data-platform-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

latency APIs.* To maximize performance, we’ve created specialized tables that transform our raw logs data to a format optimized for our queries, supported by adequate partitioning and ordering keys to optimize the layout of the data on disk.

We’ve learned that choosing appropriate ORDER BY clauses for tables aligned with our query patterns was vital to minimizing the amount of data scanned per query. After appropriately setting ORDER BY clauses on top of pre\-calculated tables powered by Materialised Views, we can fine\-tune even complex analytical queries down to \<100ms milliseconds latency.

These low\-level data layout optimizations are essential to ClickHouse query performance, as with tuned layout, we have seen an order of magnitude drop of data that has to be scanned to respond to our queries. These tables often work with latencies around 100ms.

Data between raw logs and specialized tables are kept in sync in real\-time by materialized views.
With the flexibility of materialized views and low\-level table controls, performance optimizations are cheap to test. We could do more of them fast and, as a result, converge on optimized solutions.

## Data Warehousing Use Cases with dbt [\#](/blog/building-a-unified-data-platform-with-clickhouse#data-warehousing-use-cases-with-dbt)

As we onboarded more customers and expanded the third\-party systems we collected data from, we noticed new errors in our data.

Due to misconfigurations or various incidents across source tools, we have seen more cases when our customer’s systems didn’t always provide 100% accurate input data. We’ve identified the need to enhance testing of completeness, timeliness, and correctness of data we ingest on behalf of our customers.

We’ve decided to use the popular data transformation framework dbt and create auditing tables that extract summary statistics about our log data.

With the addition of dbt, we’ve changed our ClickHouse usage patterns. We’ve complemented real\-time table synchronization with tables created as SELECT statements from other tables, which feels close to more traditional data warehousing. With dbt execution orchestrated in various intervals, we can also leverage ClickHouse for internal BI use cases. We’ve found this setup very practical, as we can flexibly create new analytical views of our customer data without moving it from our production operational systems.

## In\-app Analytics [\#](/blog/building-a-unified-data-platform-with-clickhouse#in-app-analytics)
