---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/parts)**
topic: clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization
ch_version_introduced: '150.96'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

`LIMIT`. But what if some columns aren’t needed until later, or some data, despite passing the `WHERE` clause, is never needed at all? That’s where **lazy materialization** comes in. An orthogonal enhancement that completes the I/O optimization stack:

- Indexing, together with PREWHERE, ensures that only rows matching column filters in the `WHERE` clause are processed.
- Lazy materialization builds on this by deferring column reads until they’re actually required by the query execution plan. Even after filtering, only the columns needed for the next operation—such as sorting—are loaded immediately. Others are postponed and, due to `LIMIT`, are often read only partially, just enough to produce the final result. This makes lazy materialization especially powerful for *Top N* queries, where the final result may only require a handful of rows from certain, often large, columns.

> This kind of fine\-grained column processing is only possible because ClickHouse stores each column independently. In [row\-oriented](https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/what-is-columnar-database#row-based-vs-column-based) databases, where all columns are read together, this level of deferred I/O simply isn’t feasible.

To demonstrate its impact, we’ll now walk through a real\-world example and show how each layer of optimization plays a role.

### Get started today

Interested in seeing how ClickHouse works on your data? Get started with ClickHouse Cloud in minutes and receive $300 in free credits.

[Sign up](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog)
## Test setup: Dataset and machine [\#](/blog/clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization#test-setup-dataset-and-machine)

We’ll use the [Amazon customer reviews](https://clickhouse.com/docs/getting-started/example-datasets/amazon-reviews) dataset, which has around 150 million product reviews from 1995 to 2015\.

We’re running ClickHouse 25\.4 on an AWS `m6i.8xlarge` EC2 instance with:  

• 32 vCPUs  

• 128 GiB RAM  

• 1 TiB gp3 SSD (with default settings: 3000 IOPS, 125 MiB/s max throughput 🐌)  

• Ubuntu Linux 24\.04

On that machine, we first created the Amazon reviews table:

```

```
CREATE TABLE amazon.amazon_reviews
(
    `review_date` Date CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `marketplace` LowCardinality(String) CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `customer_id` UInt64 CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `review_id` String CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `product_id` String CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `product_parent` UInt64 CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `product_title` String CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `product_category` LowCardinality(String) CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `star_rating` UInt8 CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `helpful_votes` UInt32 CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `total_votes` UInt32 CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `vine` Bool CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `verified_purchase` Bool CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `review_headline` String CODEC(ZSTD(1)),
    `review_body` String CODEC(ZSTD(1))
)
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY (review_date, product_category);
```

```

And then loaded the dataset from Parquet files hosted in our public example datasets S3 bucket:

```

```
INSERT INTO  amazon.amazon_reviews
SELECT * FROM s3Cluster('default', 'https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/amazon_reviews/amazon_reviews_*.snappy.parquet');
```

```
