---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/parts)**
topic: clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization
ch_version_introduced: '150.96'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

) ENGINE = MergeTree ORDER BY (review_date, product_category); ``` ``` And then loaded the dataset from Parquet files hosted in our public example datasets S3 bucket: ``` ``` INSERT INTO amazon.amazon_reviews SELECT * FROM s3Cluster('default', 'https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/amazon_reviews/amazon_reviews_*.snappy.parquet'); ``` ```

We check the table’s size after loading:

```

```
SELECT
    formatReadableQuantity(sum(rows)) AS rows,
    formatReadableSize(sum(data_uncompressed_bytes)) AS data_size,
    formatReadableSize(sum(data_compressed_bytes)) AS compressed_size
FROM system.parts
WHERE active AND database = 'amazon' AND table = 'amazon_reviews';
```

```

```

```
┌─rows───────────┬─data_size─┬─compressed_size─┐
│ 150.96 million │ 70.47 GiB │ 30.05 GiB       │
└────────────────┴───────────┴─────────────────┘
```

```

After loading, the table contains \~150 million rows and:

- 70 GiB uncompressed data
- \~30 GiB compressed on disk using ZSTD(1\)

## ClickHouse is fast, but your disk might not be [\#](/blog/clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization#clickhouse-is-fast-but-your-disk-might-not-be)

150 million rows is hardly a challenge for ClickHouse. For example, this query sorts all 150 million values in the `helpful_votes` column (which isn’t part of the table’s sort key) and returns the top 3, in just 70 milliseconds cold (with the OS filesystem cache [cleared](/blog/clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization#with-cold-os-level-filesystem-cache) beforehand) and a processing throughput of 2\.15 billion rows/s:

```

```
SELECT helpful_votes
FROM amazon.amazon_reviews
ORDER BY helpful_votes DESC
LIMIT 3;
```

```

```

```
┌─helpful_votes─┐
│         47524 │
│         41393 │
│         41278 │
└───────────────┘

3 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.070 sec. Processed 150.96 million rows, 603.83 MB (2.15 billion rows/s., 8.61 GB/s.)
Peak memory usage: 3.59 MiB.
```

```

Note that the query doesn’t benefit from indexing, PREWHERE, or other I/O reduction techniques, since it has no filters. But thanks to columnar storage, ClickHouse only reads the `helpful_votes` column and skips the rest.

Here’s another example query that simply selects (with cold filesystem cache) all data from a single `review_body` column:

```

```
SELECT review_body
FROM amazon.amazon_reviews
FORMAT Null;
```

```

```

```
Query id: b9566386-047d-427c-a5ec-e90bee027b02

0 rows in set. Elapsed: 176.640 sec. Processed 150.96 million rows, 56.02 GB (854.61 thousand rows/s., 317.13 MB/s.)
Peak memory usage: 733.14 MiB.
```

```

😱 Almost 3 minutes! Despite reading just a single column.
