---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/parts)**
topic: clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization
ch_version_introduced: '150.96'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

Query id: b9566386-047d-427c-a5ec-e90bee027b02 0 rows in set. Elapsed: 176.640 sec. Processed 150.96 million rows, 56.02 GB (854.61 thousand rows/s., 317.13 MB/s.) Peak memory usage: 733.14 MiB. ``` ``` 😱 Almost 3 minutes! Despite reading just a single column.

But the bottleneck wasn’t ClickHouse, it was the disk’s throughput. This query scanned a much larger column, 56 GB vs. 600 MB in the previous example. On our test machine, which has a [relatively slow disk](/blog/clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization#test-setup-dataset-and-machine) and 32 CPU cores, ClickHouse used 32 [parallel streams](https://clickhouse.com/docs/optimize/query-parallelism) to read the data. The [query log](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/system-tables/query_log) confirms that the majority of the 3\-minute runtime was spent [waiting on the read syscall](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/9d60aa01a83346648eae5dc9572530388271f7b0/src/Common/ProfileEvents.cpp#L101):

```

```
SELECT 
  round(ProfileEvents['DiskReadElapsedMicroseconds'] / 1e6) AS disk_read_seconds,
  ProfileEvents['ConcurrencyControlSlotsAcquired'] AS parallel_streams,
  formatReadableTimeDelta(round(disk_read_seconds / parallel_streams), 'seconds') AS time_per_stream
FROM system.query_log
WHERE query_id = 'b9566386-047d-427c-a5ec-e90bee027b02' 
  AND type = 'QueryFinish';
```

```

```

```
┌─disk_read_seconds─┬─parallel_streams─┬─time_per_stream─┐
│              5512 │               32 │ 172 seconds     │
└───────────────────┴──────────────────┴─────────────────┘
```

```

Clearly, brute\-force scans aren’t ideal, especially with cold caches. Let’s give ClickHouse something to work with.

## A more realistic query—where optimizations matter [\#](/blog/clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization#a-more-realistic-querywhere-optimizations-matter)

Despite the airport [drama](/blog/clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization), I’m still set on that beach holiday, and that means loading my eReader with only the best. So I ask ClickHouse to help me find the most helpful 5\-star verified reviews for digital ebook purchases since 2010, showing the number of helpful votes, book title, review headline, and the review itself:

```

```
SELECT
    helpful_votes,
    product_title,
    review_headline,
    review_body
FROM amazon.amazon_reviews
WHERE review_date >= '2010-01-01'
AND product_category = 'Digital_Ebook_Purchase'
AND verified_purchase
AND star_rating > 4
ORDER BY helpful_votes DESC
LIMIT 3
FORMAT Vertical;
```

```

```

```
Row 1:
──────
helpful_votes:   6376
product_title:   Wheat Belly: Lose the Wheat, Lose the Weight, and Find Your Path Back to Health
review_headline: Overweight? Diabetic? Got High Blood Pressure, Arthritis? Get this Book!
review_body:     I've been following Dr. Davis' heart scan blog for the past ...

Row 2:
──────
helpful_votes:   4149
product_title:   The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up: The Japanese Art of Decluttering and Organizing
review_headline: Truly life changing
review_body:     I rarely write reviews, but this book truly sparked somethin...

Row 3:
──────
helpful_votes:   2623
product_title:   The Fast Metabolism Diet: Eat More Food and Lose More Weight
review_headline: Fantastic Results **UPDATED 1/23/2015**
review_body:     I have been on this program for 7 days so far.  I know it ma...
```

```
