---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/parts)**
topic: clickhouse-gets-lazier-and-faster-introducing-lazy-materialization
ch_version_introduced: '150.96'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

────── helpful_votes: 2623 product_title: The Fast Metabolism Diet: Eat More Food and Lose More Weight review_headline: Fantastic Results **UPDATED 1/23/2015** review_body: I have been on this program for 7 days so far. I know it ma... ``` ```

The query above selects four columns, including three (`product_title`, `review_headline`, `review_body`) of the largest in the table:

```

```
SELECT
    name as column,
    formatReadableSize(sum(data_uncompressed_bytes)) AS data_size,
    formatReadableSize(sum(data_compressed_bytes)) AS compressed_size
FROM system.columns
WHERE database = 'amazon' AND table = 'amazon_reviews'
GROUP BY name
ORDER BY sum(data_uncompressed_bytes) DESC;
```

```

```

```
┌─column────────────┬─data_size──┬─compressed_size─┐
│ review_body       │ 51.13 GiB  │ 21.60 GiB       │
│ product_title     │ 8.12 GiB   │ 3.53 GiB        │
│ review_headline   │ 3.38 GiB   │ 1.58 GiB        │
│ review_id         │ 2.07 GiB   │ 1.35 GiB        │
│ product_id        │ 1.55 GiB   │ 720.97 MiB      │
│ customer_id       │ 1.12 GiB   │ 524.35 MiB      │
│ product_parent    │ 1.12 GiB   │ 571.63 MiB      │
│ helpful_votes     │ 575.86 MiB │ 72.11 MiB       │
│ total_votes       │ 575.86 MiB │ 83.50 MiB       │
│ review_date       │ 287.93 MiB │ 239.43 KiB      │
│ marketplace       │ 144.51 MiB │ 414.92 KiB      │
│ product_category  │ 144.25 MiB │ 838.96 KiB      │
│ star_rating       │ 143.96 MiB │ 41.99 MiB       │
│ verified_purchase │ 143.96 MiB │ 20.50 MiB       │
│ vine              │ 1.75 MiB   │ 844.89 KiB      │
└───────────────────┴────────────┴─────────────────┘
```

```

The example query touches 60\+ GiB of (uncompressed) data. As we showed earlier, even with 32 parallel streams, just reading that from the (relatively slow) disk would take 3\+ minutes with a cold cache.

But the query includes filters on multiple columns (`review_date`, `product_category`, `verified_purchase`, and `star_rating`), plus a `LIMIT` applied after sorting by `helpful_votes`. This is the perfect setup for ClickHouse’s layered I/O optimizations:

- **Indexing** prunes rows that don’t match filters on the primary/sorting key (`review_date`, `product_category`).
- **PREWHERE** pushes filtering deeper and prunes rows that don’t match *all* column filters.
- **Lazy materialization** delays loading the large `SELECT` columns (`product_title`, `review_headline`, `review_body`) until they’re actually needed—after sorting and applying `LIMIT`. Ideally, most of that large column data is never read at all.

Each layer cuts down I/O further. Together, they reduce data read, memory use, and query time. Let’s see how much of a difference that makes, one layer at a time.
