---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/clickhouse-query-optimisation-definitive-guide?utm_medium=clickhouse&utm_source=blog&ref=a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1
topic: a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

queries will be executed. So, if you haven’t started your journey with ClickHouse, maybe you want to skip this part and go straight to the next section to learn about basic optimizations and the importance of primary keys.

But if you have an existing deployment with a few queries that you want to improve, the first step is understanding how those queries perform and why some execute in a few milliseconds while others take longer.

ClickHouse has a rich set of tools to help you understand how your query is getting executed and the resources consumed to perform the execution. 

In this section, we will look at those tools and how to use them. 

## General considerations [\#](/blog/a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1#general-considerations)

To understand query performance, let’s look at what happens in ClickHouse when a query is executed. 

The following part is deliberately simplified and takes some shortcuts; the idea here is not to drown you with details but to get you up to speed with the basic concepts. For more information you can consult the [query analyzer documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/developer/understanding-query-execution-with-the-analyzer). 

From a very high\-level standpoint, when ClickHouse executes a query, the following happens: 

- **Query parsing and analysis**

The query is parsed and analyzed, and a generic query execution plan is created. 

- **Query optimization**

The query execution plan is optimized, unnecessary data is pruned, and a query pipeline is built from the query plan. 

- **Query pipeline execution**

The data is read and processed in parallel. This is the stage where ClickHouse actually executes the query operations such as filtering, aggregations, and sorting. 

- **Final processing**

The results are merged, sorted, and formatted into a final result before being sent to the client.

In reality, many [optimizations](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/concepts/why-clickhouse-is-so-fast) are taking place, and we will discuss them a bit more in this guide, but for now, those main concepts give us a good understanding of what is happening behind the scenes when ClickHouse executes a query. 

With this high\-level understanding, let’s examine the tooling ClickHouse provides and how we can use it to track the metrics that affect query performance. 

## Demo environment [\#](/blog/a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1#demo-environment)

As discussed in the introduction, we recently deployed the [ClickHouse Playground](https://sql.clickhouse.com/) demo environment for anyone to play with different datasets using ClickHouse. This environment runs on ClickHouse Cloud and is used by hundreds of users.
