---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/clickhouse-query-optimisation-definitive-guide?utm_medium=clickhouse&utm_source=blog&ref=a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1
topic: a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

can note that no primary keys are used, which makes sense as we didn't define any when we created the table. As a result, ClickHouse is doing a full scan of the table for the query. **Explain Pipeline**

EXPLAIN Pipeline shows the concrete execution strategy for the query. There, you can see how ClickHouse actually executed the generic query plan we looked at previously.

```
 
```
1EXPLAIN PIPELINE
2WITH
3    dateDiff('s', pickup_datetime, dropoff_datetime) AS trip_time,
4    (trip_distance / trip_time) * 3600 AS speed_mph
5SELECT quantiles(0.5, 0.75, 0.9, 0.99)(trip_distance)
6FROM nyc_taxi.trips_small_inferred
7WHERE speed_mph > 30
8
9Query id: c7e11e7b-d970-4e35-936c-ecfc24e3b879
10
11    ┌─explain─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
12 1. │ (Expression)                                                                        │
13 2. │ ExpressionTransform × 59                                                            │
14 3. │   (Aggregating)                                                                     │
15 4. │   Resize 59 → 59                                                                    │
16 5. │     AggregatingTransform × 59                                                       │
17 6. │       StrictResize 59 → 59                                                          │
18 7. │         (Expression)                                                                │
19 8. │         ExpressionTransform × 59                                                    │
20 9. │           (Filter)                                                                  │
2110. │           FilterTransform × 59                                                      │
2211. │             (ReadFromMergeTree)                                                     │
2312. │             MergeTreeSelect(pool: PrefetchedReadPool, algorithm: Thread) × 59 0 → 1 │
```


```

Here, we can note the number of threads used to execute the query: 59 threads, which indicates a high parallelization. This speeds up the query, which would take longer to execute on a smaller machine. The number of threads running in parallel can explain the high volume of memory the query uses. 

Ideally, you would investigate all your slow queries the same way to identify unnecessary complex query plans and understand the number of rows read by each query and the resources consumed.

## Methodology [\#](/blog/a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1#methodology)

It can be difficult to identify problematic queries on a production deployment, as there are probably a large number of queries being executed at any given time on your ClickHouse deployment. 

If you know which user, database, or tables are having issues, you can use the fields `user`, `tables`, or `databases` from the `system.query_logs` to narrow down the search. 

Once you identify the queries you want to optimize, you can start working on them to optimize. One common mistake developers make at this stage is changing multiple things simultaneously, running ad\-hoc experiments, and usually ending up with mixed results, but, more importantly, missing a good understanding of what made the query faster.
