---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/clickhouse-query-optimisation-definitive-guide?utm_medium=clickhouse&utm_source=blog&ref=a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1
topic: a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

practices documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/bestpractices/avoid-nullable-columns), avoid nullable columns wherever possible. It is tempting to use them often, as they make the data ingestion mechanism more flexible, but they negatively affect performance as an additional column has to be processed every time.

Running an SQL query that counts the rows with a NULL value can easily reveal the columns in your tables that actually need a Nullable value.

```
 
```
1-- Find non-null values columns 
2SELECT
3    countIf(vendor_id IS NULL) AS vendor_id_nulls,
4    countIf(pickup_datetime IS NULL) AS pickup_datetime_nulls,
5    countIf(dropoff_datetime IS NULL) AS dropoff_datetime_nulls,
6    countIf(passenger_count IS NULL) AS passenger_count_nulls,
7    countIf(trip_distance IS NULL) AS trip_distance_nulls,
8    countIf(fare_amount IS NULL) AS fare_amount_nulls,
9    countIf(mta_tax IS NULL) AS mta_tax_nulls,
10    countIf(tip_amount IS NULL) AS tip_amount_nulls,
11    countIf(tolls_amount IS NULL) AS tolls_amount_nulls,
12    countIf(total_amount IS NULL) AS total_amount_nulls,
13    countIf(payment_type IS NULL) AS payment_type_nulls,
14    countIf(pickup_location_id IS NULL) AS pickup_location_id_nulls,
15    countIf(dropoff_location_id IS NULL) AS dropoff_location_id_nulls
16FROM trips_small_inferred
17FORMAT VERTICAL
18
19Query id: 4a70fc5b-2501-41c8-813c-45ce241d85ae
20
21Row 1:
22──────
23vendor_id_nulls:           0
24pickup_datetime_nulls:     0
25dropoff_datetime_nulls:    0
26passenger_count_nulls:     0
27trip_distance_nulls:       0
28fare_amount_nulls:         0
29mta_tax_nulls:             137946731
30tip_amount_nulls:          0
31tolls_amount_nulls:        0
32total_amount_nulls:        0
33payment_type_nulls:        69305
34pickup_location_id_nulls:  0
35dropoff_location_id_nulls: 0
```


```

We have only two columns with null values: `mta_tax` and `payment_type`. The rest of the fields should not be using a `Nullable` column.

### Low cardinality [\#](/blog/a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1#low-cardinality)

An easy optimization to apply to Strings is to make best use of the LowCardinality data type. As described in the low cardinality [documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/lowcardinality), ClickHouse applies dictionary coding to LowCardinality\-columns, which significantly increases query performance. 

An easy rule of thumb for determining which columns are good candidates for LowCardinality is that any column with less than 10,000 unique values is a perfect candidate.

You can use the following SQL query to find columns with a low number of unique values.

```
 
```
1-- Identify low cardinality columns
2SELECT
3    uniq(ratecode_id),
4    uniq(pickup_location_id),
5    uniq(dropoff_location_id),
6    uniq(vendor_id)
7FROM trips_small_inferred
8FORMAT VERTICAL
9
10Query id: d502c6a1-c9bc-4415-9d86-5de74dd6d932
11
12Row 1:
13──────
14uniq(ratecode_id):         6
15uniq(pickup_location_id):  260
16uniq(dropoff_location_id): 260
17uniq(vendor_id):           3
```


```

With a low cardinality, those four columns, `ratecode_id`, `pickup_location_id`, `dropoff_location_id`, and `vendor_id`, are good candidates for the LowCardinality field type.

### Optimize data type [\#](/blog/a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1#optimize-data-type)
