---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/clickhouse-query-optimisation-definitive-guide?utm_medium=clickhouse&utm_source=blog&ref=a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1
topic: a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

12Row 1: 13────── 14uniq(ratecode_id): 6 15uniq(pickup_location_id): 260 16uniq(dropoff_location_id): 260 17uniq(vendor_id): 3 ``` ``` With a low cardinality, those four columns, `ratecode_id`, `pickup_location_id`, `dropoff_location_id`, and `vendor_id`, are good candidates for the LowCardinality field type. ### Optimize data type [\#](/blog/a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1#optimize-data-type)

Clickhouse supports a large number of data types. Make sure to pick the smallest possible data type that fits your use case to optimize performance and reduce your data storage space on disk.

For numbers, you can check the min/max value in your dataset to check if the current precision value matches the reality of your dataset. 

```
 
```
1-- Find min/max values for the payment_type field
2SELECT
3    min(payment_type),max(payment_type),
4    min(passenger_count), max(passenger_count)
5FROM trips_small_inferred
6
7Query id: 4306a8e1-2a9c-4b06-97b4-4d902d2233eb
8
9   ┌─min(payment_type)─┬─max(payment_type)─┐
101. │                 1 │                 4 │
11   └───────────────────┴───────────────────┘
```


```

For dates, you should pick a precision that matches your dataset and is best suited to answering the queries you’re planning to run.

### Apply the optimizations [\#](/blog/a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1#apply-the-optimizations)

Let’s create a new table to use the optimized schema and re\-ingest the data.

```
 
```
1-- Create table with optimized data 
2CREATE TABLE trips_small_no_pk
3(
4    `vendor_id` LowCardinality(String),
5    `pickup_datetime` DateTime,
6    `dropoff_datetime` DateTime,
7    `passenger_count` UInt8,
8    `trip_distance` Float32,
9    `ratecode_id` LowCardinality(String),
10    `pickup_location_id` LowCardinality(String),
11    `dropoff_location_id` LowCardinality(String),
12    `payment_type` Nullable(UInt8),
13    `fare_amount` Decimal32(2),
14    `extra` Decimal32(2),
15    `mta_tax` Nullable(Decimal32(2)),
16    `tip_amount` Decimal32(2),
17    `tolls_amount` Decimal32(2),
18    `total_amount` Decimal32(2)
19)
20ORDER BY tuple();
21
22-- Insert the data 
23INSERT INTO trips_small_no_pk SELECT * FROM trips_small_inferred
```


```

We run the queries again using the new table to check for improvement. 

| Name | Run 1 \- Elapsed | Elapsed | Rows processed | Peak memory |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Query 1 | 1\.699 sec | 1\.353 sec | 329\.04 million | 337\.12 MiB |
| Query 2 | 1\.419 sec | 1\.171 sec | 329\.04 million | 531\.09 MiB |
| Query 3 | 1\.414 sec | 1\.188 sec | 329\.04 million | 265\.05 MiB |


We notice some improvements in both query time and memory usage. Thanks to the optimization in the data schema, we reduce the total volume of data that represents our data, leading to improved memory consumption and reduced processing time.
