---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/clickhouse-query-optimisation-definitive-guide?utm_medium=clickhouse&utm_source=blog&ref=a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1
topic: a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1
ch_version_introduced: '0.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

Other options supported by ClickHouse, such as Projection or Materialized view, allow you to use a different set of primary keys on the same data. The second part of this blog series will cover this in more detail.

### Choose primary keys [\#](/blog/a-simple-guide-to-clickhouse-query-optimization-part-1#choose-primary-keys)

Choosing the correct set of primary keys is a complex topic, and it might require trade\-offs and experiments to find the best combination. 

For now, we're going to follow these simple practices: 

- Use fields that are used to filter in most queries
- Choose columns with lower cardinality first
- Consider a time\-based component in your primary key, as filtering by time on a timestamp dataset is pretty common.

In our case, we will experiment with the following primary keys: `passenger_count`, `pickup_datetime`, and `dropoff_datetime`. 

The cardinality for passenger\_count is small (24 unique values) and used in our slow queries. We also add timestamp fields (`pickup_datetime` and `dropoff_datetime`) as they can be filtered often.

Create a new table with the primary keys and re\-ingest the data.

```
 
```
1CREATE TABLE trips_small_pk
2(
3    `vendor_id` UInt8,
4    `pickup_datetime` DateTime,
5    `dropoff_datetime` DateTime,
6    `passenger_count` UInt8,
7    `trip_distance` Float32,
8    `ratecode_id` LowCardinality(String),
9    `pickup_location_id` UInt16,
10    `dropoff_location_id` UInt16,
11    `payment_type` Nullable(UInt8),
12    `fare_amount` Decimal32(2),
13    `extra` Decimal32(2),
14    `mta_tax` Nullable(Decimal32(2)),
15    `tip_amount` Decimal32(2),
16    `tolls_amount` Decimal32(2),
17    `total_amount` Decimal32(2)
18)
19PRIMARY KEY (passenger_count, pickup_datetime, dropoff_datetime);
20
21-- Insert the data 
22INSERT INTO trips_small_pk SELECT * FROM trips_small_inferred
```


```

We then rerun our queries. We compile the results from the three experiments to see the improvements in elapsed time, rows processed, and memory consumption.
