---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/kubenetmon>
topic: open-sourcing-kubenetmon-how-we-monitor-data-transfer-in-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: '10.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

out to untangle this complexity, and this blog post is going to tell you how. ## The goals [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#the-goals) When scoping out what kind of visibility into data transfer we wanted to achieve, we identified 3 individual goals:

1. **Forensics:** We wanted to have records of individual L3/L4 connections opened in our infrastructure presented as time series over the duration of the connection. That way, we would be able to understand how throughput fluctuates even for individual long\-running connections. For example, rather than just knowing that there was a connection that started at a particular time and lasted for a particular duration with a particular data transfer volume, we would want to know the rate of data transfer for said connection at a higher granularity, let’s say with per\-minute bandwidth records. With this information, we would be able to answer questions such as *what was the behavior of this connection over time?*
2. **Attribution:** Our infrastructure is multi\-tenant, meaning we run multiple customers’ workloads on the same hardware. This means that to understand our data transfer, we need to see what workloads the connection belongs to, as well as which Availability Zones and pods those workloads are running in. When one of the endpoints of the connection is outside of our infrastructure, we want to know about it as much as possible – whether it is in the same cloud provider and region, and so on. With this information, we would be able to answer questions such as *what workload opened this connection and what was its remote endpoint?*
3. **Metering:** We wanted to account for particularly cost\-sensitive data transfer use cases (such as costly egress to public Internet) by individual workloads. This meant having a long\-retention infrastructure that aggregates cumulative usage of data transfer by workload and by “business” category of the data transfer. With this information, we would be able to answer questions such as *for this particular data transfer spend category, how did we trend over time and what internal or customer usage changes can we attribute trend fluctuations to?*
