---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/kubenetmon>
topic: open-sourcing-kubenetmon-how-we-monitor-data-transfer-in-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: '10.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

To our surprise, none of the options we evaluated fit our bill! We would like to go through the list of options we considered and our thought process when deciding whether to use them. ### Cilium CNI [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#cilium-cni)

We use Cilium in ClickHouse Cloud, which is well\-known to have not only powerful networking capabilities, but also, through Cilium Hubble, advanced observability features. However, it turned out that with Cilium Hubble, you generally have either the ability to get volumetric data with little context, or non\-volumetric data with a lot of context. For example, Cilium’s metrics such as *forward\_bytes* and *forward\_count* would give us the volumetric information that we want, but they lack information about connection endpoints; Cilium separately has very granular information about connections and their endpoints, but the metrics with such labels are not volumetric – they allow you to meter *flow* counts, but the definition of a *flow* in Cilium parlance has nothing to do with connection bandwidth (a *flow* count is incremented for a given connection tuple whenever a new TCP flag is seen, and every N seconds).

Needless to say, many people, including ourselves, are surprised to learn this. The underlying technical constraints that make solving this problem challenging on the Cilium side are very interesting, and we recommend reading up on the comments and issues linked here in the Cilium GitHub project: <https://github.com/cilium/cilium/issues/32193>.

### CSP flow logs [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#csp-flow-logs)

Of course, cloud providers already have the capability to track data transfer and give you insights about it. However, these features can become expensive in and of themselves. Additionally, their capabilities differ across cloud providers, and in some cases they would not provide us with the data we need. For example, in AWS and Azure, we found it difficult to annotate flow logs with custom Kubernetes workload labels. Finally, any postprocessing architecture we would have for our *metering* goal would have to work differently with each individual provider rather than work with a uniform data collection system and schema.

### Cost\-metering solutions [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#cost-metering-solutions)
