---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/kubenetmon>
topic: open-sourcing-kubenetmon-how-we-monitor-data-transfer-in-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: '10.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

Kubernetes workload labels. Finally, any postprocessing architecture we would have for our *metering* goal would have to work differently with each individual provider rather than work with a uniform data collection system and schema. ### Cost\-metering solutions [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#cost-metering-solutions)

There are also a lot of projects and businesses out there that help companies monitor and understand their cloud spend, including data transfer spend. Some of these solutions have open\-core components, such as OpenCost. When evaluating these, we found that they are very good at focusing on the FinOps part of the task at hand, but their data representation gives you limited insights when it comes to understanding individual connections and their behavior over time (the *forensics* part of our goalset).

### Do it in ClickHouse! [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#do-it-in-clickhouse)

Of course, we also considered implementing simple user\-space functionality in the ClickHouse application itself to track which connections are open to and from ClickHouse. ClickHouse already has a plethora of [system tables](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/system-tables) where all sorts of useful information is collected; in fact, ClickHouse already collects some network\-related information in system.metrics, e.g. TCPConnection, NetworkReceive, NetworkSend, and so on. What’s even more fantastic is that in ClickHouse Cloud, we already have a system that continuously scrapes and exports anonymized system table data from customer instances, which we call SysEx, so the export of any data transfer records would work out of the box.

There are challenges with this approach, however. First, by definition we would not be able to see any traffic between non\-ClickHouse workloads, of which we have more and more. Secondly, systematically tracking all network on an L3/L4 level in a userspace application is complex and is prone to introduce overly verbose code, since (inbound and outbound) request handling is typically implemented at a higher level than that and is spread throughout the codebase. Finally, this approach leaves no elegant place for the *attribution* part of our task to be implemented, which definitely does not belong in the ClickHouse codebase.

### Non\-Cilium eBPF\-based solutions [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#non-cilium-ebpf-based-solutions)
