---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/kubenetmon>
topic: open-sourcing-kubenetmon-how-we-monitor-data-transfer-in-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: '10.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

that and is spread throughout the codebase. Finally, this approach leaves no elegant place for the *attribution* part of our task to be implemented, which definitely does not belong in the ClickHouse codebase. ### Non\-Cilium eBPF\-based solutions [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#non-cilium-ebpf-based-solutions)

The last family of options we considered were eBPF\-based tools outside of Cilium. We evaluated projects like [Retina](https://github.com/microsoft/retina), which is tailor\-made for network observability in the cloud and is in fact used under the hood in advanced Azure products. Thanks to eBPF, such solutions generally have very few limitations with regards to what data they have access to, and since they are designed for the very purpose of cloud network observability, they already do the powerful work of annotating connection information with workload labels, just as we want. Repurposing the open source components of the Datadog system\-probe agent would fall under this category, too.

Unfortunately, we ultimately decided not to go down this path out of concerns with mixing eBPF workloads from different vendors where we have limited visibility into how their interoperability is tested (as a reminder, we already run Cilium, which is based on eBPF, and rely on dataplane v2 in GKE, which is also based around Cilium). We felt that the potential blast radius of two such systems developed by external teams misinteracting with each other is too wide, and we would prefer to limit our eBPF exposure in the data transfer path to just Cilium workloads. We felt that the appropriate test and integration harness required to start using this approach would require more work than solving the problem at hand by itself.

Another limitation we would have had to deal with when using some of these solutions is Prometheus, which is the go\-to method of recording observations in the ecosystem (and for a good reason!). However, with a high level of information associated with connections comes a high level of cardinality, which Prometheus makes notoriously expensive to deal with. Ideally, we wanted to avoid relying on a metrics model where possible.

## Our solution [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#our-solution)

After evaluating all of the options above, we decided to implement something in\-house, but we wanted to keep it very simple. We needed to come up with answers to three questions:
