---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/kubenetmon>
topic: open-sourcing-kubenetmon-how-we-monitor-data-transfer-in-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: '10.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

know no other systems rely on this information) using a special [setting](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/ti-mo/conntrack#DumpOptions) in the conntrack API; this lets us assume that the values we scrape are not cumulative and reflect the throughput in the time interval between scrapes.

While the cloud is a fascinating abstraction, at the end of the day you can still rely on the lower\-level Linux primitives!

### How do we attribute connections to endpoints? [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#how-do-we-attribute-connections-to-endpoints)

Let’s assume we now have a daemon that can scrape conntrack entries every few seconds. What’s next? We have endpoint IPs, ports, byte and packet counts, and that’s about it. It’s time to solve our *attribution* problem.

For the next step, we implement labeling logic in our daemon, which at this point we have named *kubenetmon*. In principle, the task is very simple: when we scrape conntrack, we need to ask the Kubernetes API which pod a particular IP is assigned to, pull information that we want about said pod, and call it a day. In fact, it did turn out to be simple – we quickly implemented this proof of concept, and it worked. As you can see in the [open source project](https://github.com/ClickHouse/kubenetmon/tree/main), we had to do some extra work around identifying the connection direction and working around NAT, but overall things worked as we expected. Finally, we also implemented labeling related to endpoints that live outside of our clusters – for example, we track ranges of AWS services, allowing us to identify when a remote belongs to AWS, and if it does, then what region it is running in. This made it possible for us to distinguish inter\-region and intra\-region traffic, for instance.

This proof of concept wasn’t performing well, though. It consumed a lot of RAM, and even worse, put a high load on the Kubernetes API. To address the latter, we chose to use Kubernetes [informers](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/client-go/informers) instead of polling the Kubernetes API every time we needed some information – the informer approach allows us to watch Kubernetes events to build an internal map of the cluster state, so that whenever we need to label a connection, we can use our in\-memory knowledge about the cluster rather than reach out to the API.
