---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/kubenetmon>
topic: open-sourcing-kubenetmon-how-we-monitor-data-transfer-in-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: '10.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

to watch Kubernetes events to build an internal map of the cluster state, so that whenever we need to label a connection, we can use our in\-memory knowledge about the cluster rather than reach out to the API.

Yet we were still not done with the RAM issue. In fact, it had only gotten worse with the migration to the informer model, since we now kept more state in\-memory (duh). It became clear that we could not have a daemon that runs on every node keep track of the entire (rather large) cluster’s state.

At this point, we split *kubenetmon* into two components: *kubenetmon\-agent* and *kubenetmon\-server*. kubenetmon\-agent, a daemon, was kept dead simple – it now did nothing but periodically scrape conntrack and forward the records to kubenetmon\-server over gRPC. kubenetmon\-server, in turn, now hosted all the logic related to labeling connection records received from kubenetmon\-agent with Kubernetes metadata. Since kubenetmon\-server was stateless (in that it didn’t have an identity or any information that had to persist across restarts), we could easily scale out kubenetmon\-servers to multiple replicas if we wanted to.

Combined with the use of informers and careful implementation of endpoint labeling logic, this hub\-and\-spoke architecture left us very happy. kubenetmon\-agent’s memory footprint is typically in the 5\-20 MB range.

At this point, all that was left was building out data storage for all the connection information we have collected.

### How do we store these connection records? [\#](/blog/kubenetmon-open-sourced#how-do-we-store-these-connection-records)

Thankfully, we didn’t have to think long to decide on the final destination for our data – ClickHouse. What is fascinating about ClickHouse is how good it is at handling high\-cardinality data. At no point were we concerned that collecting so many connection attributes would ever be too much. We can slice and dice the data we collect in any way we see fit without fear for performance concerns.

We also already have ClickHouse clusters running internally in each environment where we collect metrics, logs, and other information about our systems. We call these clusters LogHouses.
