---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/kubenetmon>
topic: open-sourcing-kubenetmon-how-we-monitor-data-transfer-in-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: '10.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

= 'clickhouse-server' AND connectionClass != 'INTRA_VPC' GROUP BY intervalStartTime ORDER BY intervalStartTime DESC ``` When designing this table and implementing our insert logic in the Go kubenetmon\-server service, we found a few things curious and worth highlighting here:

1. **SummingMergeTree family.** Remember we mentioned that for convenience, we reset conntrack counters on each scrape? Suppose we scrape conntrack every 5 seconds (with some jitter) and want to calculate our throughput at a per\-minute resolution. How do we do that? While we could just insert this raw data into a regular MergeTree and massage SELECT queries to work with it, we use a trick available to us with ClickHouse – we create a [SummingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/summingmergetree) table that automatically sums up all bytes and packets across each unique combination of values of all other keys. Since intervalStartTime is always just toStartOfMinute(timestamp), this effectively computes throughput at a per\-minute resolution, just as we wanted. We keep intervalSeconds always set to 60, but if we wanted to lower the resolution, we could change intervalStartTime to toStartOfFiveMinutes(timestamp) and intervalSeconds to 300, for example.
2. **Primary keys and sorting keys.** The keys in the SummingMergeTree can get a little tricky. By default, in ClickHouse, the primary key and the sorting key are the same thing. However, we wanted to retain the ability to add new columns to our table in the future, and in a SummingMergeTree all “grouping” columns (the columns the tree sums *by*) must be in the sorting key; since the sorting key can be mutable while the primary key is always immutable, we define the two independently, allowing us to mutate the sorting key in the future if we ever add new columns we need to sum by. In effect, the sorting key just enumerates all columns except bytes and packets. The primary key is always a prefix of the sorting key. When it comes to the order of the sorting key, it is best practice to specify lower\-cardinality columns first; however, you want your sorting key to actually reflect the usage of particular fields as filters in your queries, so we start with those low\-cardinality columns that we expect to actually use in our queries on this table.
3. **Async inserts, batching and flushing.** In our inserter (kubenetmon\-server), we build in\-memory batches that we flush when they get either too old or too large (fun fact: we initially had a bug where we would not check the age of the batch unless new data came in, meaning that in low\-traffic environments such as certain dev environments we did not flush batches on time). For inserts, we rely on [async inserts](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/asynchronous-inserts), allowing the ClickHouse server to batch data even further before flushing it if it sees so fit. We keep wait\_for\_async\_insert set to true (which is the default) to be confident that data isn’t lost. To avoid blocking our inserter, we run a number of inserter “worker” threads in our kubenetmon\-server, each of which competes for work and accumulates its own batch for insertion.
4. **Deduplication.** While nearly impossible, hypothetically our subsequent batches can repeat each other – what if there was a small number of connections that transferred identical amounts of data throughout a couple scrape intervals? Since we round the observation timestamp down to the minute in intervalStartTime with toStartOfMinute(timestamp), such batches could in theory be seen as duplicates by ClickHouse. To avoid deduplication in such (improbable) situations, we set insert\_deduplication\_token on each insert to a randomly generated UUID, convincing ClickHouse server that none of our batches should ever be deduplicated.
