---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/llm-observability
topic: llm-observability-with-clickstack-opentelemetry-and-mcp
ch_version_introduced: '0.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

ChatGPT or Claude Desktop, it supports extensive customization, plugin integrations, and multilingual access. With its familiar UI and modular architecture, LibreChat makes it easy to self\-host, extend, and tailor your AI chat experience. ## What is MCP? [\#](/blog/llm-observability-clickstack-mcp#what-is-mcp)

[MCP (Model Context Protocol)](https://clickhouse.com/docs/use-cases/AI/MCP) is an emerging standard for connecting third\-party services such as databases, APIs, and tools to language models. By implementing an MCP server, you define how your service can be used by clients powered by LLMs. On the other side, MCP clients\- such as Claude Desktop, ChatGPT and LibreChat \- enable these models to interact with your service in a structured way.

This protocol is rapidly becoming the default for LLM integrations, offering a lightweight, language\-agnostic interface for service access. Earlier this year, we introduced the mcp\-clickhouse server, allowing ClickHouse to be used seamlessly by any MCP client.

The value of MCP lies in what it unlocks. It allows LLMs to act not just as passive responders but as active interfaces for real\-time systems. That means querying databases, triggering actions, and surfacing insights with the fluidity of natural conversation. In these agentic workflows, speed and interactivity are critical. ClickHouse excels in this space. Its low\-latency analytical engine makes it well\-suited for scenarios where a user expects a fast response \- not hours later, but in the next few seconds of the conversation. MCP makes that connection possible.

In this example, we'll connect the ClickHouse MCP server to LibreChat, but the below instrumentation could be reproduced for any FastMCP implementation (the popular framework on which ClickHouse MCP is based). Our MCP server will in turn connect to our demo environment [sql.clickhouse.com](http://sql.clickhouse.com) which has over 35 datasets it can use to answer user questions.

## Deploying LibreChat [\#](/blog/llm-observability-clickstack-mcp#deploying-librechat)

LibreChat provides a [docker compose file](https://github.com/danny-avila/LibreChat/blob/main/docker-compose.yml) to get all the components up and running easily. In this section, we will see how we extended this docker compose file to instrument LibreChat and ClickHouse MCP Server. The full working example can be found on this [Github repository](https://github.com/ClickHouse/examples/tree/main/clickstack/librechat-llm-observability). 

## Configuring LibreChat with ClickHouse MCP [\#](/blog/llm-observability-clickstack-mcp#configuring-librechat-with-clickhouse-mcp)

LibreChat supports MCP out of the box, this [documentation](https://www.librechat.ai/docs/features/mcp#basic-configuration) describes how to integrate MCP servers using different examples. In this example, we're going to deploy ClickHouse MCP Server as a separate service and LibreChat will connect to it using [the SSE protocol](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server-sent_events).
