---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/user.md)#
topic: create-user-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '192.168'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

The `double_sha1_password` is not typically needed, but comes in handy when working with clients that require it (like the MySQL interface): ``` CREATE USER name4 IDENTIFIED WITH double_sha1_password BY 'my_password' ``` ClickHouse generates and runs the following query:

```
CREATE USER name4 IDENTIFIED WITH double_sha1_hash BY 'CCD3A959D6A004B9C3807B728BC2E55B67E10518'

```
5. The `bcrypt_password` is the most secure option for storing passwords. It uses the [bcrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt) algorithm, which is resilient against brute force attacks even if the password hash is compromised.

```
CREATE USER name5 IDENTIFIED WITH bcrypt_password BY 'my_password'

```

The length of the password is limited to 72 characters with this method.
The bcrypt work factor parameter, which defines the amount of computations and time needed to compute the hash and verify the password, can be modified in the server configuration:

```
<bcrypt_workfactor>12</bcrypt_workfactor>

```

The work factor must be between 4 and 31, with a default value of 12\.

NoteFor applications with high\-frequency authentication,
consider alternative authentication methods due to
bcrypt's computational overhead at higher work factors.
6. The type of the password can also be omitted:

```
CREATE USER name6 IDENTIFIED BY 'my_password'

```

In this case, ClickHouse will use the default password type specified in the server configuration:

```
<default_password_type>sha256_password</default_password_type>

```

The available password types are: `plaintext_password`, `sha256_password`, `double_sha1_password`.
7. Multiple authentication methods can be specified:

```
CREATE USER user1 IDENTIFIED WITH plaintext_password by '1', bcrypt_password by '2', plaintext_password by '3''

```

Notes:

1. Older versions of ClickHouse might not support the syntax of multiple authentication methods. Therefore, if the ClickHouse server contains such users and is downgraded to a version that does not support it, such users will become unusable and some user related operations will be broken. In order to downgrade gracefully, one must set all users to contain a single authentication method prior to downgrading. Alternatively, if the server was downgraded without the proper procedure, the faulty users should be dropped.
2. `no_password` can not co\-exist with other authentication methods for security reasons. Therefore, you can only specify
`no_password` if it is the only authentication method in the query.

## User Host[​](#user-host "Direct link to User Host")

User host is a host from which a connection to ClickHouse server could be established. The host can be specified in the `HOST` query section in the following ways:
