---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/user.md)#
topic: create-user-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '192.168'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

query. ## User Host[​](#user-host "Direct link to User Host") User host is a host from which a connection to ClickHouse server could be established. The host can be specified in the `HOST` query section in the following ways:

- `HOST IP 'ip_address_or_subnetwork'` — User can connect to ClickHouse server only from the specified IP address or a [subnetwork](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Subnetwork). Examples: `HOST IP '192.168.0.0/16'`, `HOST IP '2001:DB8::/32'`. For use in production, only specify `HOST IP` elements (IP addresses and their masks), since using `host` and `host_regexp` might cause extra latency.
- `HOST ANY` — User can connect from any location. This is a default option.
- `HOST LOCAL` — User can connect only locally.
- `HOST NAME 'fqdn'` — User host can be specified as FQDN. For example, `HOST NAME 'mysite.com'`.
- `HOST REGEXP 'regexp'` — You can use [pcre](http://www.pcre.org/) regular expressions when specifying user hosts. For example, `HOST REGEXP '.*\.mysite\.com'`.
- `HOST LIKE 'template'` — Allows you to use the [LIKE](/docs/sql-reference/functions/string-search-functions#like) operator to filter the user hosts. For example, `HOST LIKE '%'` is equivalent to `HOST ANY`, `HOST LIKE '%.mysite.com'` filters all the hosts in the `mysite.com` domain.

Another way of specifying host is to use `@` syntax following the username. Examples:

- `CREATE USER mira@'127.0.0.1'` — Equivalent to the `HOST IP` syntax.
- `CREATE USER mira@'localhost'` — Equivalent to the `HOST LOCAL` syntax.
- `CREATE USER mira@'192.168.%.%'` — Equivalent to the `HOST LIKE` syntax.

TipClickHouse treats `user_name@'address'` as a username as a whole. Thus, technically you can create multiple users with the same `user_name` and different constructions after `@`. However, we do not recommend to do so.

## VALID UNTIL Clause[​](#valid-until-clause "Direct link to VALID UNTIL Clause")
