---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/with.md)#
topic: with-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '24.3'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

# WITH Clause \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Statements](/docs/sql-reference/statements)- [SELECT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select)- WITH
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/with.md)# WITH Clause

ClickHouse supports Common Table Expressions ([CTE](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hierarchical_and_recursive_queries_in_SQL)), Common Scalar Expressions and Recursive Queries.

## Common Table Expressions[​](#common-table-expressions "Direct link to Common Table Expressions")

Common Table Expressions represent named subqueries.
They can be referenced by name anywhere in a `SELECT` query where a table expression is allowed.
Named subqueries can be referenced by name in the scope of the current query or in the scopes of child subqueries.

Every reference to a Common Table Expression in `SELECT` queries is always replaced by the subquery from it's definition if the CTE is not explicitly defined as materialized (see [Materialized Common Table Expressions](#materialized-common-table-expressions)).
Recursion is prevented by hiding the current CTE from the identifier resolution process.

Please note that CTEs do not guarantee the same results in all places they are called because the query will be re\-executed for each use case.

### Syntax[​](#common-table-expressions-syntax "Direct link to Syntax")

```
WITH <identifier> AS [MATERIALIZED] <subquery expression>

```

### Example[​](#common-table-expressions-example "Direct link to Example")

An example of when a subquery is re\-executed:

```
WITH cte_numbers AS
(
    SELECT
        num
    FROM generateRandom('num UInt64', NULL)
    LIMIT 1000000
)
SELECT
    count()
FROM cte_numbers
WHERE num IN (SELECT num FROM cte_numbers)

```

If CTEs were to pass exactly the results and not just a piece of code, you would always see `1000000`

However, due to the fact that we are referring `cte_numbers` twice, random numbers are generated each time and, accordingly, we see different random results, `280501, 392454, 261636, 196227` and so on...

## Materialized Common Table Expressions[​](#materialized-common-table-expressions "Direct link to Materialized Common Table Expressions")

By default, ClickHouse inlines the subquery of a CTE at each point of reference, re\-executing it every time.
Adding the `MATERIALIZED` keyword instructs ClickHouse to execute the CTE subquery **exactly once**, store the results in a temporary table, and serve all references from that table.
This is especially useful when the same CTE is referenced multiple times in a query (e.g., in self\-joins or multiple `IN` subqueries), because the underlying computation only happens once.

NoteMaterialized CTEs are an **experimental** feature.
They require the [analyzer](/docs/operations/analyzer) and the setting `enable_materialized_cte` to be enabled.

### Syntax[​](#materialized-common-table-expressions-syntax "Direct link to Syntax")

```
WITH <identifier> AS MATERIALIZED (<subquery>)
SELECT ...

```
