---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/docs/component-stability.md#beta
topic: clickhouse-and-opentelemetry
ch_version_introduced: '06.207795400'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

ENGINE = SharedMergeTree PARTITION BY EventDate ORDER BY (PodName, Timestamp) TTL EventTime + toIntervalDay(180) SETTINGS index_granularity = 8192, ttl_only_drop_parts = 1; ``` *The OTel Schema for LogHouse, ClickHouse Cloud Logging Solution* A few observations about the LogHouse schema:

- We use the ordering key `(PodName, Timestamp)`. This is optimized for our query access patterns where users usually filter by these columns. Users will want to modify this based on their expected workflows.
- We use the `LowCardinality(String)` type for all String columns with the exception of those with very high cardinality. This dictionary encodes our string values and has proven to improve compression, and thus read performance. Our current rule of thumb is to apply this encoding for any string columns with a cardinality lower than 10,000 unique values.
- Our default compression codec for all columns is ZSTD at level 1\. This is specific to the fact our data is stored on S3\. While ZSTD can be slower at compression when compared to alternatives, such as LZ4, this is offset by better compression ratios and consistently fast decompression ([around 20% variance](https://engineering.fb.com/2016/08/31/core-data/smaller-and-faster-data-compression-with-zstandard/)). These are preferable properties when using S3 for storage.
- Inherited from the [OTel schema](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/c008f8feb719b30d997bd529bb7360372d4a7161/exporter/clickhouseexporter/exporter_logs.go#L144), we use `bloom_filters` for the keys for any maps and values. This provides a secondary index on the keys and values of the maps based on a Bloom filter data structure. A Bloom filter is a data structure that allows space\-efficient testing of set membership at the cost of a slight chance of false positives. In theory, this allows us to evaluate quickly whether [granules on disk](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes#mark-files-are-used-for-locating-granules) contain a specific map key or value. This filter might make sense logically as some map keys and values should be correlated with the ordering keys of pod name and timestamp i.e. the specific pods will have specific attributes. However, others will exist for every pod \- we don’t expect these queries to be accelerated when querying on these values as the chances of the filtering condition being met by at least one of the rows in a granule is very high (in this configuration a block is a granule as GRANULARITY\=1\). For further details on why a correlation is needed between the ordering key and column/expression, see [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/skipping-indexes#skip-best-practices). This general rule has been considered for other columns such as Namespace. Generally, these Bloom filters have been applied liberally and need to be optimized \- a pending task. The false\-positive rate of 0\.01 has also not been tuned.
