---
source: blog
url: https://datasets.clickhouse.com/github_events_v2.native.xz'
topic: what-s-new-in-clickhouse-22-1
ch_version_introduced: '0.9'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

## **Parallel Query Processing On Replicas** [\#](/blog/whats-new-in-clickhouse-22-1#parallel-query-processing-on-replicas) ClickHouse is a distributed MPP DBMS. It can scale up to use all CPU cores on one server and scale out to use computation resources of multiple shards in a cluster.

But each shard usually contains more than one replica. And by default ClickHouse is using the resources of only one replica on every shard. E.g. if you have a cluster of 6 servers with 3 shards and two replicas on each, a query will use just three servers instead of all six.

There was an option to enable `max_parallel_replicas`, but that option required specifying a “sampling key”, it was inconvenient to use and did not scale well.

Now we have a setting to enable the new parallel processing algorithm: `allow_experimental_parallel_reading_from_replicas`. If it is enabled, replicas will dynamically select and distribute the work across them.

It works perfectly even if replicas have lower or higher amounts of computation resources. And it gives a complete result even if some replicas are stale.

This feature was implemented by **Nikita Mikhaylov**

## **Service Discovery** [\#](/blog/whats-new-in-clickhouse-22-1#service-discovery)

When adding or removing nodes in a cluster, now you don’t have to edit the config on every server. Just use automatic cluster and servers will register itself:

```
<allow_experimental_cluster_discovery>1
</allow_experimental_cluster_discovery>

<remote_servers>
    <auto_cluster>
        <discovery>
            <path>/clickhouse/discovery/auto_cluster</path>
            <shard>1</shard>
        </discovery>
    </auto_cluster>
</remote_servers>

```

There is no need to edit the config when adding new replicas!

This feature was implemented by **Vladimir Cherkasov**.

## **Sparse Encoding For Columns** [\#](/blog/whats-new-in-clickhouse-22-1#sparse-encoding-for-columns)

If a column contains mostly zeros, we can encode it in sparse format and automatically optimize calculations!

It is a special column encoding, similar to `LowCardinality`, but it’s completely transparent and works automatically.

```
CREATE TABLE test.hits …
ENGINE = MergeTree ORDER BY …
SETTINGS ratio_of_defaults_for_sparse_serialization = 0.9

```

It allows compressing data better and optimizes computations, because data in sparse columns will be processed directly in sparse format in memory.

Sparse or full format is selected based on column statistics that is calculated on insert and updated on background merges.

Developed by **Anton Popov**.

We also want to make LowCardinality encoding automatic, stay tuned!

## **Diagnostic Tool For ClickHouse** [\#](/blog/whats-new-in-clickhouse-22-1#diagnostic-tool-for-clickhouse)
