---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/56556
topic: a-year-of-rust-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

other setting, and pass your queries in the selected dialect. However, there are some downsides of alternative dialects, like the lack of interactive syntax highlighting for all dialects except SQL, and poorer integration with built\-in functions and extensions.

Regardless of questions on its usefulness, PRQL brought us better confidence in Rust. After having two Rust libraries in our codebase, we started to understand that it would be hard to get rid of Rust, and we could tolerate it.

## Delta Kernel [\#](/blog/rust#delta-kernel)

This is the first library we have added not just for the sake of Rust, but for practical needs. Delta Lake is an open data lake format from Databricks. It mimics the operation of [MergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/parts) tables in ClickHouse but is based on Parquet files in object storage. Data lakes and "Lakehouse" (a new term, that sounds surprisingly similar to ClickHouse, but is different) \- are increasingly popular ways for managing data in large organizations, as there is a benefit when the data format is independent of the storage engine. So, one engine (such as Spark) can write into a data lake in the Iceberg or Delta Lake format, and another engine (such as ClickHouse) can run queries on top of the data lake, so the whole architecture is named "data lakehouse".

The problem is that there are no good C\+\+ implementations for either Iceberg or Delta Lake. Either you use Java (which would be a shame for us) or write it from scratch in C\+\+. At first glance, it is not too hard to write Iceberg and Delta Lake implementation in C\+\+, because each format is represented by these components: \- a bunch of Parquet files on object storage; \- a bunch of metadata files, and snapshot descriptions in formats like JSON and Avro; \- a catalog, which is an API to find the tables. We already had C\+\+ implementations of each of the data lake formats: Iceberg v1, v2, Delta Lake, and Apache Hudi. However, these implementations were sketchy, with many corner cases unsupported, and they are not particularly pleasant to write (no C\+\+ engineer can be excited by the task of "read this JSON file and follow the spec precisely").
