---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/56556
topic: a-year-of-rust-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

here. Update: While writing this article I found that the problem is not fixed, and it became worse: now some symbols from Rust approach [almost a megabyte in size](https://pastila.nl/?0000abbf/bae03f66ff43f46095c871704539ed44#rpdnTwh42L+Hf42S73NEGg==). I have to fix it urgently. ## Composability [\#](/blog/rust#composability)

There is a problem, when our C\+\+ code uses some conventions to do things like managing connections to external storages, or accounting of allocated memory, and Rust code uses other conventions. We maintain connection pools for S3, we ensure that requests use just the right amount of parallelism, spread across multiple endpoints uniformly, and remain alive just the right time to allow proper rebalancing and avoid slow start, and connections use a proper exponential backoff, proven in practice. When anything in our code allocates memory, we account for it in the query context, to control the memory usage. But it’s hard to expect the level of composability from external libraries to support providing custom memory allocators, custom connection pools, etc. Maybe this is common in Haskell or Julia, but good luck using them. Inevitably, a Rust library will do something slightly differently, and then we will have to patch it. Now it means that we have to sink deeply into the Rust code. The amount of trouble was not evident at the start of the journey.

## Build profiling and caching [\#](/blog/rust#build-profiling-and-caching)

Our build infrastructure supports distributed cache and profiling of the build process. Adding Rust means that we have to [support the caching](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/52865) and profiling of Rust builds as well. In practice, it means that for a long period of time, we work without a build cache for Rust and pay more money for it.

## Dependency management [\#](/blog/rust#dependency-management)

Rust has a highly modular ecosystem, and libraries are composed much better than in C\+\+. As a downside, Rust libraries typically have a large fan\-out of dependencies, much like Node.js. This requires taking care to avoid the [blow\-up of dependencies](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/52316), and to deal with annoyances of dependabot.

## How is Rust going? [\#](/blog/rust#how-is-rust-going)

**Rust is going great!** If your friend is eager to write something in Rust, please invite them to ClickHouse, and we guarantee a warm welcome.
