---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/enum.md)#
topic: enum-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

from the valid set), an exception is thrown. When reading and writing in binary form, it works the same way as for Int8 and Int16 data types. The implicit default value is the value with the lowest number.

During `ORDER BY`, `GROUP BY`, `IN`, `DISTINCT` and so on, Enums behave the same way as the corresponding numbers. For example, ORDER BY sorts them numerically. Equality and comparison operators work the same way on Enums as they do on the underlying numeric values.

Enum values cannot be compared with numbers. Enums can be compared to a constant string. If the string compared to is not a valid value for the Enum, an exception will be thrown. The IN operator is supported with the Enum on the left\-hand side and a set of strings on the right\-hand side. The strings are the values of the corresponding Enum.

Most numeric and string operations are not defined for Enum values, e.g. adding a number to an Enum or concatenating a string to an Enum.
However, the Enum has a natural `toString` function that returns its string value.

Enum values are also convertible to numeric types using the `toT` function, where T is a numeric type. When T corresponds to the enum's underlying numeric type, this conversion is zero\-cost.
The Enum type can be changed without cost using ALTER, if only the set of values is changed. It is possible to both add and remove members of the Enum using ALTER (removing is safe only if the removed value has never been used in the table). As a safeguard, changing the numeric value of a previously defined Enum member will throw an exception.

Using ALTER, it is possible to change an Enum8 to an Enum16 or vice versa, just like changing an Int8 to Int16\.

[PreviousDateTime64](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/datetime64)[NextUUID](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/uuid)- [Usage Examples](#usage-examples)- [General Rules and Usage](#general-rules-and-usage)
Was this page helpful?
