---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/how-to-build-ai-agents-mcp-12-frameworks)."
topic: tracing-openai-agents-with-clickstack
ch_version_introduced: '3.13'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

traces to OpenAI's tracing product, but we can hook in our own custom exporter to capture and analyze the data ourselves. The OpenAI agents tracing SDK treats traces and spans as separate entities. Here's how they define each:

Traces represent a single end\-to\-end operation of a "workflow". They're composed of Spans. Traces have the following properties:

- `workflow_name`: This is the logical workflow or app. For example, "Code generation" or "Customer service".
- `trace_id`: A unique ID for the trace. Automatically generated if you don't pass one. Must have the format trace\_\<32\_alphanumeric\>.
- `group_id`: Optional group ID, to link multiple traces from the same conversation. For example, you might use a chat thread ID.
- `disabled`: If True, the trace will not be recorded.
- `metadata`: Optional metadata for the trace.

Spans represent operations that have a start and end time. Spans have:

- `started_at` and ended\_at timestamps.
- `trace_id`, to represent the trace they belong to
- `parent_id`, which points to the parent Span of this Span (if any)
- `span_data`, which is information about the Span. For example, AgentSpanData contains information about the Agent, GenerationSpanData includes information on the LLM generation, and so on.

Let’s build a basic exporter that prints out spans and traces to the terminal:

```

```
1from agents.tracing.processors import TracingExporter
2
3class ClickHouseExporter(TracingExporter):    
4    def export(self, items: list) -> None:
5        for item in items:
6            print(item.export())
```

```

Next, we’ll add the following code to the top of our `main` function to add `ClickHouseExporter` as the exporter for a `BatchTraceProcessor`:

```

```
1from agents.tracing.processors import BatchTraceProcessor
2
3exporter = ClickHouseExporter()
4add_trace_processor(BatchTraceProcessor(exporter=exporter, max_batch_size=200))
```

```

Now, let’s rerun our script. Below are examples of the output that gets printed:
