---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=pr-gcp-ga
topic: clickhouse-cloud-expands-choice-with-launch-on-google-cloud-platform
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

add real\-time, analytical and observability capabilities that scale to our customers' needs. In addition, ClickHouse Cloud expanding to Google Cloud lets us spend our iterations on customer\-facing improvements and less time on managing our own high\-scale ClickHouse clusters.”

ClickHouse is a fast and powerful database that makes the most efficient use of resources to deliver robust, secure and scalable performance that adapts to any workload. As a database fine\-tuned for real time analytics, it turns data into insights in milliseconds, whether it's a SaaS service for analyzing user behavior or an internet of things platform looking at warehouse sensor data for uptime and downtime trends. ClickHouse Cloud launched in December 2022 to provide a serverless, fully managed, turnkey platform for real\-time analytics built on top of ClickHouse.

With transparent, pay\-as\-you\-go pricing, ClickHouse Cloud users can get started on GCP with a few clicks. Backed by a robust serverless architecture, ClickHouse Cloud dynamically scales based on project needs and eliminates the operational overhead of having to self\-manage, over\-provision or pay for unused capacity.

“Vimeo, the world's most innovative video platform, offers robust observability and video analytics that Clickhouse has been instrumental in bolstering,” says Naren Venkataraman, Chief Technology Officer at Vimeo. “ClickHouse Cloud on Google Cloud Platform aligns perfectly with Vimeo's established partnership with Google Cloud, offering improved performance and scalability. This integration empowers Vimeo's team to expedite innovation cycles and drastically improve service quality for their customers.”

ClickHouse Cloud’s GA on GCP also makes it easier for users to combine the power of ClickHouse with Google BigQuery, a serverless cloud data warehouse. Deploying the two alongside one another can speed up queries that power customer\-facing applications and internal analytics.   

Below are additional benefits of today’s launch on GCP:
