---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=pr-gcp-ga
topic: clickhouse-cloud-expands-choice-with-launch-on-google-cloud-platform
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

the power of ClickHouse with Google BigQuery, a serverless cloud data warehouse. Deploying the two alongside one another can speed up queries that power customer\-facing applications and internal analytics. Below are additional benefits of today’s launch on GCP:

- **Simplicity.** A ClickHouse Cloud user can log in and launch a new service with a few clicks, and start analyzing their own data in under five minutes. They don't have to worry about the operational complexity of server configurations and cluster topology, shards and replicas, managing backups and restore, durability and fault\-tolerance, monitoring, or alerts. Further, a SQL Console makes it easy to do things like explore databases and tables, run and save queries, create charts and even share queries with team members to collaborate more effectively.
- **Speed and Scale.** ClickHouse Cloud is designed to handle petabyte\-scale datasets. There is no need for manual sharding or manual data movement as it scales automatically. Its multi\-layer cache and other cloud\-native performance optimizations ensure impressive query performance for a wide variety of workloads.
- **Security and Reliability**. ClickHouse Cloud has security best practices built in by default. It is configured with network isolation and traffic encryption. ClickHouse builds are additionally hardened, tested, and validated for ClickHouse Cloud. The service is automatically replicated across multiple availability zones and tolerates outages of any AZ in a region.
- **Efficiency.** ClickHouse Cloud adapts itself to the workload requirements at hand, scaling up the resources consumed when needed and scaling down when they are not. ClickHouse Cloud also takes advantage of common object storage as its primary storage while separating compute. This dramatically increases resource flexibility and efficiency, resulting in the industry's best price/performance ratio.
- **Ecosystem.** Easy\-to\-use integrations allow users to seamlessly ingest data and interface with both internal and external systems. They provide a curated set of core and partner integrations vetted to work seamlessly with ClickHouse Cloud in addition to hundreds of community\-built integrations.
- **Simple, transparent pricing** users pay only for the resources they use without the need to over\-provision for peak workloads.

The news follows on a year of robust growth for ClickHouse Inc., including a $250M Series B funding round that brought together a number of leading venture capital firms like Coatue, Altimeter, Index Ventures, Benchmark, Thrive Capital, Lightspeed and Redpoint.
