---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: clickhouse-joins-under-the-hood-full-sorting-merge-join-partial-merge-join-mergingsortedtransform
ch_version_introduced: '11.559'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 23
---

rows from the left table that can’t possibly have join matches. And vice versa. This works especially well if one table is much smaller than the other and the table’s unique join key column values fit in memory.

[Hash join](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-part2) also will perform well in such a scenario. But full sorting merge join works for both left and right tables in the same way, and in the case of both tables being larger than the available memory it will just fall back on external sorting automatically. This optimization is an attempt to bring hash join performance to full sorting merge join for this particular use case. The [max\_rows\_in\_set\_to\_optimize\_join](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/23.4/src/Core/Settings.h#L389) setting controls the optimization. Setting it to 0 disables it. The default value is 100,000\. This value specifies the maximum allowed size (in terms of entries) of both table sets together. This means that if both sets together stay below the threshold, then the optimization will be applied to both tables. If both sets together are above the threshold, then it can still be that one of the two sets is below the threshold, and the optimization will be applied to just one table. As we will see in the trace logs below, ClickHouse will sequentially try to build the sets for both tables and revert and skip building a set if the limit is exceeded.

Our example join query is joining the two tables by the `first_name` and `role` columns, respectively:

```
SELECT *
FROM actors AS a
JOIN roles AS r ON a.first_name = r.role
FORMAT `Null`
SETTINGS join_algorithm = 'full_sorting_merge';

```

We check the amount of unique join key column values in the (smaller) left table:

```
SELECT countDistinct(first_name)
FROM actors;


┌─uniqExact(first_name)─┐
│                109993 │
└───────────────────────┘

```

And we check the amount of unique join key column values in the (larger) right table:

```
SELECT countDistinct(role)
FROM roles;


┌─uniqExact(role)─┐
│          999999 │
└─────────────────┘

```

With the default value of 100,000 for the `max_rows_in_set_to_optimize_join` setting, the optimization would not be applied to either table.

For demonstration, we execute the example query with the default value for `max_rows_in_set_to_optimize_join`:
