---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: clickhouse-joins-under-the-hood-full-sorting-merge-join-partial-merge-join-mergingsortedtransform
ch_version_introduced: '11.559'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 22
total_chunks_in_doc: 23
---

with 30 streams ... ... MergingSortedTransform: Merge sorted 1528 blocks, 100000000 rows … ... ``` We can see how 6 and 30 parallel streams are used for streaming the data from both tables block\-wise into the query engine.

A MergingSortedTransform entry summarizes the join processing: The 1528 data blocks from the right table with 100 million rows got sorted and later merge\-joined with the blocks from the left table. Note that 1528 data blocks for 100 million rows is equivalent to \~65445 rows per block which corresponds to the [default block size](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#setting-max_block_size).

## Summary [\#](/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-full-sort-partial-merge-part3#summary)

This blog post described and compared in detail the two ClickHouse join algorithms that are based on external sorting.

The **Full sorting merge join** is non\-memory bound and based on in\-memory or external sorting, and can take advantage of the physical row order of the joined tables and skip the sorting phase. In such cases, the join performance can be competitive with [hash join algorithms](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-part2), while generally requiring significantly less main memory.

The **partial merge join** is optimized for minimizing memory usage when large tables are joined, and always fully sorts the right table first via external sorting. The left table is also always sorted, block\-wise in\-memory. The join matching process runs more efficiently if the physical row order of the left table matches the join key sorting order.

This chart summarizes and compares the memory usage and execution times of some of this post’s join query runs. We ran always the same join query joining the same data, with the larger table on the right\-hand side on a node with 30 CPU cores (and therefore `max_threads` set to 30\):
