---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/graviton-boosts-clickhouse-cloud-performance%20
topic: what-s-new-in-clickhouse-2025-roundup
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

the ways our community can use ClickHouse. **Terraform Provider Enhancements** Our [ClickHouse Cloud Terraform provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/ClickHouse/clickhouse/latest) now supports the ability to add tags to services making it easier to organize services by team, project, environment, or other use cases.

In addition, our new [Clickhouse Database Operations provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/ClickHouse/clickhousedbops/latest) reached 64k downloads! This database operations provider allows you to manage database users, roles, and privileges as code, compatible with both cloud and self\-managed deployments. This provider also now supports configuring additional database user settings, giving you greater control over how users interact with and consume database resources.

**Query API Endpoints (GA)**

Query Endpoints reached general availability, allowing you to turn saved SQL queries into RESTful API endpoints with just a few clicks. Endpoint latency has been reduced, with significant improvements to cold starts. Result streaming and support for all ClickHouse compatible outputs expand the ways you can leverage query endpoints. They’re also much more secure with GA – with new enhanced RBAC controls, configurable CORs domain and the ability to safely execute arbitrary SQL.

**SQL console improvements**

SQL console continues to evolve for all your in\-console querying needs. You can now share your queries with teammates in your organization with more granular permissions. Understanding why your queries are performing poorly got much better with Query Insights, making it easier to optimize and debug your queries. In addition to insights, the number of visualizations you can create from a query continues to grow with the latest addition being heatmap charts.

**Dashboards**

To date, ClickHouse seamlessly integrates with your favorite business intelligence and visualization tools. This year, visualizations available from saved queries have been extended and native dashboarding capabilities were introduced. You can create, organize and share your visualizations with dashboards with all of the visualization types already available through saved queries.

## **AI\-powered features \& The Agentic Data Stack** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-2025-roundup#ai-powered-features--the-agentic-data-stack)

2025 was a big year for our AI story. We’ve added a number of new features to augment your ClickHouse experience and introduced a new open\-source, composible stack for agentic analytics.

**SQL autocomplete \& Ask AI**
