---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/annindexes.md)#
topic: exact-and-approximate-vector-search-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

optionally specify further HNSW\-specific parameters: ``` CREATE TABLE table ( [...], vectors Array(Float*), INDEX index_name vectors TYPE vector_similarity('hnsw', <distance_function>, <dimensions>[, <quantization>, <hnsw_max_connections_per_layer>, <hnsw_candidate_list_size_for_construction>]) [GRANULARITY N] ) ENGINE = MergeTree ORDER BY [...] ``` These HNSW\-specific parameters are available:

- `<quantization>` controls the quantization of the vectors in the proximity graph. Possible values are `f64`, `f32`, `f16`, `bf16`, `i8`, or `b1`. The default value is `bf16`. Note that this parameter does not affect the representation of the vectors in the underlying column.
- `<hnsw_max_connections_per_layer>` controls the number of neighbors per graph node, also known as HNSW hyperparameter `M`. The default value is `32`. Value `0` means using the default value.
- `<hnsw_candidate_list_size_for_construction>` controls the size of the dynamic candidate list during construction of the HNSW graph, also known as HNSW hyperparameter `ef_construction`. The default value is `128`. Value `0` means using the default value.

The default values of all HNSW\-specific parameters work reasonably well in the majority of use cases.
We therefore do not recommend customizing the HNSW\-specific parameters.

Further restrictions apply:

- Vector similarity indexes can only be build on columns of type [Array(Float32\)](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array), [Array(Float64\)](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array), or [Array(BFloat16\)](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/array). Arrays of nullable and low\-cardinality floats such as `Array(Nullable(Float32))` and `Array(LowCardinality(Float32))` are not allowed.
- Vector similarity indexes must be build on single columns.
- Vector similarity indexes may be build on calculated expressions (e.g., `INDEX index_name arraySort(vectors) TYPE vector_similarity([...])`) but such indexes cannot be used for approximate neighbor search later on.
- Vector similarity indexes require that all arrays in the underlying column have `<dimension>`\-many elements \- this is checked during index creation. To detect violations of this requirement as early as possible, users can add a [constraint](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/table#constraints) for the vector column, e.g., `CONSTRAINT same_length CHECK length(vectors) = 256`.
- Likewise, array values in the underlying column must not be empty (`[]`) or have a default value (also `[]`).

**Estimating storage and memory consumption**

A vector generated for use with a typical AI model (e.g. a Large Language Model, [LLMs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Large_language_model)) consists of hundreds or thousands of floating\-point values.
Thus, a single vector value can have a memory consumption of multiple kilobyte.
Users who like to estimate the storage required for the underlying vector column in the table, as well as the main memory needed for the vector similarity index, can use below two formula:
