---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/annindexes.md)#
topic: exact-and-approximate-vector-search-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

are stored in 575 granules, i.e. 1\.7k rows per granule. The query asks for 10 neighbours and the vector similarity index finds these 10 neighbours in 10 separate granules. These 10 granules will be read during query execution.

Vector similarity indexes are used if the output contains `Skip` and the name and type of the vector index (in the example, `idx` and `vector_similarity`).
In this case, the vector similarity index dropped two of four granules, i.e. 50% of the data.
The more granules can be dropped, the more effective index usage becomes.

TipTo enforce index usage, you can run the SELECT query with setting [force\_data\_skipping\_indexes](/docs/operations/settings/settings#force_data_skipping_indices) (provide the index name as setting value).

**Post\-filtering and Pre\-filtering**

Users may optionally specify a `WHERE` clause with additional filter conditions for the SELECT query.
ClickHouse will evaluate these filter conditions using post\-filtering or pre\-filtering strategy.
In short, both strategies determine the order in which the filters are evaluated:

- Post\-filtering means that the vector similarity index is evaluated first, afterwards ClickHouse evaluates the additional filter(s) specified in the `WHERE` clause.
- Pre\-filtering means that the filter evaluation order is the other way round.

The strategies have different trade\-offs:

- Post\-filtering has the general problem that it may return less than the number of rows requested in the `LIMIT <N>` clause. This situation happens when one or more result rows returned by the vector similarity index fails to satisfy the additional filters.
- Pre\-filtering is generally an unsolved problem. Certain specialized vector databases provide pre\-filtering algorithms but most relational databases (including ClickHouse) will fall back to exact neighbor search, i.e., a brute\-force scan without index.

What strategy is used depends on the filter condition.

*Additional filters are part of the partition key*

If the additional filter condition is part of the partition key, then ClickHouse will apply partition pruning.
As an example, a table is range\-partitioned by column `year` and the following query is run:

```
WITH [0., 2.] AS reference_vec
SELECT id, vec
FROM tab
WHERE year = 2025
ORDER BY L2Distance(vec, reference_vec) ASC
LIMIT 3;

```

ClickHouse will prune all partitions except the 2025 one.

*Additional filters cannot be evaluated using indexes*

If additional filter conditions cannot be evaluated using indexes (primary key index, skipping index), ClickHouse will apply post\-filtering.
