---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/annindexes.md)#
topic: exact-and-approximate-vector-search-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

neighbors fetched from the vector index is multiplied by the setting value and then the additional filter to be applied on those rows to return LIMIT\-many rows. As an example, we can query again but with multiplier `3.0`:

```
SELECT bookid, author, title
FROM books
WHERE price < 2.00
ORDER BY cosineDistance(book_vector, getEmbedding('Books on ancient Asian empires'))
LIMIT 10
SETTING vector_search_index_fetch_multiplier = 3.0;

```

ClickHouse will fetch 3\.0 x 10 \= 30 nearest neighbors from the vector index in each part and afterwards evaluate the additional filters.
Only the ten closest neighbors will be returned.
We note that setting `vector_search_index_fetch_multiplier` can mitigate the problem but in extreme cases (very selective WHERE condition), it is still possible that less than N requested rows returned.

**Rescoring**

Skip indexes in ClickHouse generally filter at the granule level, i.e. a lookup in a skip index (internally) returns a list of potentially matching granules which reduces the number of read data in the subsequent scan.
This works well for skip indexes in general but in the case of vector similarity indexes, it creates a "granularity mismatch".
In more detail, the vector similarity index determines the row numbers of the N most similar vectors for a given reference vector, but it then needs to extrapolate these row numbers to granule numbers.
ClickHouse will then load these granules from disk, and repeat the distance calculation for all vectors in these granules.
This step is called rescoring and while it can theoretically improve accuracy \- remember the vector similarity index returns only an *approximate* result, it is obvious not optimal in terms of performance.

ClickHouse therefore provides an optimization which disables rescoring and returns the most similar vectors and their distances directly from the index.
The optimization is enabled by default, see setting [vector\_search\_with\_rescoring](/docs/operations/settings/settings#vector_search_with_rescoring).
The way it works at a high level is that ClickHouse makes the most similar vectors and their distances available as a virtual column `_distances`.
To see this, run a vector search query with `EXPLAIN header = 1`:

```
EXPLAIN header = 1
WITH [0., 2.] AS reference_vec
SELECT id
FROM tab
ORDER BY L2Distance(vec, reference_vec) ASC
LIMIT 3
SETTINGS vector_search_with_rescoring = 0

```
