---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/annindexes.md)#
topic: exact-and-approximate-vector-search-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

can be used: First, index creation can be parallelized. The maximum number of index creation threads can be configured using server setting [max\_build\_vector\_similarity\_index\_thread\_pool\_size](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#max_build_vector_similarity_index_thread_pool_size). For optimal performance, the setting value should be configured to the number of CPU cores.

Second, to speed up INSERT statements, users may disable the creation of skipping indexes on newly inserted parts using session setting [materialize\_skip\_indexes\_on\_insert](/docs/operations/settings/settings#materialize_skip_indexes_on_insert).
SELECT queries on such parts will fall back to exact search.
Since inserted parts tend to be small compared to the total table size, the performance impact of that is expected to be negligible.

Third, to speed up merges, users may disable the creation of skipping indexes on merged parts using session setting [materialize\_skip\_indexes\_on\_merge](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#materialize_skip_indexes_on_merge).
This, in conjunction with statement [ALTER TABLE \[...] MATERIALIZE INDEX \[...]](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/skipping-index#materialize-index), provides explicit control over the life cycle of vector similarity indexes.
For example, index creation can be deferred until all data was ingested or until a period of low system load such as the weekend.

**Tuning index usage**

SELECT queries need to load vector similarity indexes into main memory to use them.
To avoid that the same vector similarity index is loaded repeatedly into main memory, ClickHouse provides a dedicated in\-memory cache for such indexes.
The bigger this cache is, the fewer unnecessary loads will happen.
The maximum cache size can be configured using server setting [vector\_similarity\_index\_cache\_size](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#vector_similarity_index_cache_size).
By default, the cache can grow up to 5 GB in size.

The following log messages (`system.text_log`) indicate that the vector similarity index is being loaded.
If such messages appear repeatedly for different vector search queries, this indicates that the cache size is too low.

```
2026-02-03 07:39:10.351635 [1386] f0ac5c85-1b1c-4f35-8848-87a1d1aa00ba : VectorSimilarityIndex Start loading vector similarity index

<...>

2026-02-03 07:40:25.217603 [1386] f0ac5c85-1b1c-4f35-8848-87a1d1aa00ba : VectorSimilarityIndex Loaded vector similarity index: max_level = 2, connectivity = 64, size = 1808111, capacity = 1808111, memory_usage = 8.00 GiB, bytes_per_vector = 4096, scalar_words = 1024, nodes = 1808111, edges = 51356964, max_edges = 233395072

```

NoteThe vector similarity index cache stores vector index granules.
If individual vector index granules are bigger than the cache size, they will not be cached.
Therefore, please make sure to calculate the vector index size (based on the formula in "Estimating storage and memory consumption" or [system.data\_skipping\_indices](/docs/operations/system-tables/data_skipping_indices)) and size the cache correspondingly.
