---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/annindexes.md)#
topic: exact-and-approximate-vector-search-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

indexes remain in memory at all times. **Tuning quantization** [Quantization](https://huggingface.co/blog/embedding-quantization) is a technique to reduce the memory footprint of vectors and the computational costs of building and traversing vector indexes. ClickHouse vector indexes supports the following quantization options:

| Quantization Name Storage per dimension| f32 Single precision 4 bytes| f16 Half precision 2 bytes| bf16 (default) Half precision (brain float) 2 bytes| i8 Quarter precision 1 byte| b1 Binary 1 bit | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | | | |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |


Quantization reduces the precision of vector searches compared to searching the original full\-precision floating\-point values (`f32`).
However, on most datasets, half\-precision brain float quantization (`bf16`) results in a negligible precision loss, therefore vector similarity indexes use this quantization technique by default.
Quarter precision (`i8`) and binary (`b1`) quantization causes appreciable precision loss in vector searches.
We recommend both quantizations only if the the size of the vector similarity index is significantly larger than the available DRAM size.
In this case, we also suggest enabling rescoring ([vector\_search\_index\_fetch\_multiplier](/docs/operations/settings/settings#vector_search_index_fetch_multiplier), [vector\_search\_with\_rescoring](/docs/operations/settings/settings#vector_search_with_rescoring)) to improve accuracy.
Binary quantization is only recommended for 1\) normalized embeddings (i.e. vector length \= 1, OpenAI models are usually normalized), and 2\) if the cosine distance is used as distance function.
Binary quantization internally uses the Hamming distance to construct and search the proximity graph.
The rescoring step uses the original full\-precision vectors stored in the table to identify the nearest neighbours via cosine distance.

**Tuning data transfer**

The reference vector in a vector search query is provided by the user and generally retrieved by making a call to a Large Language Model (LLM).
Typical Python code which runs a vector search in ClickHouse might look like this

```
search_v = openai_client.embeddings.create(input = "[Good Books]", model='text-embedding-3-large', dimensions=1536).data[0].embedding

params = {'search_v': search_v}
result = chclient.query(
   "SELECT id FROM items
    ORDER BY cosineDistance(vector, %(search_v)s)
    LIMIT 10",
    parameters = params)

```
