---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/annindexes.md)#
topic: exact-and-approximate-vector-search-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 15
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

formatReadableSize(data_compressed_bytes) FROM system.data_skipping_indices WHERE type = 'vector_similarity'; ``` Example output: ``` ┌─database─┬─table─┬─name─┬─formatReadab⋯ssed_bytes)─┐ │ default │ tab │ idx │ 348.00 MB │ └──────────┴───────┴──────┴──────────────────────────┘ ``` #### Differences to regular skipping indexes[​](#differences-to-regular-skipping-indexes "Direct link to Differences to regular skipping indexes")

As all regular [skipping indexes](/docs/optimize/skipping-indexes), vector similarity indexes are constructed over granules and each indexed block consists of `GRANULARITY = [N]`\-many granules (`[N]` \= 1 by default for normal skipping indexes).
For example, if the primary index granularity of the table is 8192 (setting `index_granularity = 8192`) and `GRANULARITY = 2`, then each indexed block will contain 16384 rows.
However, data structures and algorithms for approximate neighbor search are inherently row\-oriented.
They store a compact representation of a set of rows and also return rows for vector search queries.
This causes some rather unintuitive differences in the way vector similarity indexes behave compared to normal skipping indexes.

When a user defines a vector similarity index on a column, ClickHouse internally creates a vector similarity "sub\-index" for each index block.
The sub\-index is "local" in the sense that it only knows about the rows of its containing index block.
In the previous example and assuming that a column has 65536 rows, we obtain four index blocks (spanning eight granules) and a vector similarity sub\-index for each index block.
A sub\-index is theoretically able to return the rows with the N closest points within its index block directly.
However, since ClickHouse loads data from disk to memory at the granularity of granules, sub\-indexes extrapolate matching rows to granule granularity.
This is different from regular skipping indexes which skip data at the granularity of index blocks.
