---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/update.md)#
topic: the-lightweight-update-statement-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

GRANT ALTER UPDATE ON db.table TO username; ``` ## Details of the implementation[​](#details-of-the-implementation "Direct link to Details of the implementation") Patch parts are the same as the regular parts, but contain only updated columns and several system columns:

- `_part` \- the name of the original part
- `_part_offset` \- the row number in the original part
- `_block_number` \- the block number of the row in the original part
- `_block_offset` \- the block offset of the row in the original part
- `_data_version` \- the data version of the updated data (block number allocated for the `UPDATE` query)

On average it gives about 40 bytes (uncompressed data) of overhead per updated row in the patch parts.
System columns help to find rows in the original part which should be updated.
System columns are related to the [virtual columns](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#virtual-columns) in the original part, which are added for reading if patch parts should be applied.
Patch parts are sorted by `_part` and `_part_offset`.

Patch parts belong to different partitions than the original part.
The partition id of the patch part is `patch-<hash of column names in patch part>-<original_partition_id>`.
Therefore patch parts with different columns are stored in different partitions.
For example three updates `SET x = 1 WHERE <cond>`, `SET y = 1 WHERE <cond>` and `SET x = 1, y = 1 WHERE <cond>` will create three patch parts in three different partitions.

Patch parts can be merged among themselves to reduce the amount of applied patches on `SELECT` queries and reduce the overhead. Merging of patch parts uses the [replacing](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree) merge algorithm with `_data_version` as a version column.
Therefore patch parts always store the latest version for each updated row in the part.

Lightweight updates don't wait for currently running merges and mutations to finish and always use a current snapshot of data parts to execute an update and produce a patch part.
Because of that there can be two cases of applying patch parts.

For example if we read part `A`, we need to apply patch part `X`:
