---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/what-is-time-series-database
topic: building-a-product-analytics-solution-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

a product. This goes beyond basic web analytics that many of us are familiar with through tools such as Google Analytics, by focusing on user actions, patterns, and behaviors within a product to uncover insights that inform decision\-making.

Product analytics helps answer critical questions such as: What actions correlate with higher engagement or churn? Where do users experience friction in workflows? How do users navigate through features? By tracking and analyzing feature usage through events such as clicks, product teams can better understand user needs, improve the user experience, and optimize key metrics like conversion rates and retention. This continuous feedback loop is invaluable for product managers and growth marketers, as it allows them to make data\-driven adjustments that drive product adoption, engagement, and overall satisfaction.

## Why ClickHouse for product analytics? [\#](/blog/building-product-analytics-with-clickhouse#why-clickhouse-for-product-analytics)

Much like web analytics, product analytics deals with large volumes of [event\-driven data](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/what-is-time-series-database) generated by user actions—such as clicks, swipes, and interactions within an application. Subsequent questions product managers and growth marketers ask of this data tend to be both temporal and complex, looking to analyze patterns over time, such as where users stop using the product in a signup workflow, what usage patterns predict higher customer lifetime value, and which portions of the product may require more guidance or benefit from a redesign.

The access patterns demand a high\-performance data store that can manage rapid event ingestion, complex querying, and high concurrency, making ClickHouse an ideal fit. Its columnar storage, real\-time data ingestion capabilities, and efficiency in handling massive datasets enable product teams to gain timely, actionable insights into user behavior. Importantly, users can ask almost any question imaginable by simply writing SQL!

Furthermore, ClickHouse’s columnar\-oriented design, coupled with the fact that data values are sorted on insert, allows a high level of compression with 15x not uncommon on most text formats. These compression capabilities are crucial in enabling users to cost\-effectively store every interaction with high fidelity, allowing them to capture rich data with indefinite retention without concerns over storage costs. This, in turn, unlocks flexibility as users aren’t required to identify upfront all questions they wish to ask; rather, all data can be stored and used later to answer questions that weren’t anticipated.
