---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/what-is-time-series-database
topic: building-a-product-analytics-solution-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

without concerns over storage costs. This, in turn, unlocks flexibility as users aren’t required to identify upfront all questions they wish to ask; rather, all data can be stored and used later to answer questions that weren’t anticipated.

> In our own Galaxy environment, we achieve at least 14x compression, enabling us to retain extensive historical data and supporting deep, retrospective analyses.

ClickHouse’s high\-performance aggregation capabilities enable users to answer complex questions in real\-time, significantly enhancing productivity for product managers who no longer need to wait minutes for query results. For example, imagine being able to compute how your acquisition, activation and conversion rates have changed over time in less than a second.

This responsiveness empowers teams to explore more questions, fostering a culture of curiosity and deeper insights. Tracking the impact of product changes in real\-time as data is ingested has been invaluable for our own product managers, allowing them to A/B test features rapidly and assess their effects on key funnel metrics. This agility ensures that features showing a positive impact are retained, while those that don’t meet expectations can be swiftly adjusted or reverted.

### Build vs buy [\#](/blog/building-product-analytics-with-clickhouse#build-vs-buy)

Given ClickHouse’s strengths in handling product analytics workloads, it’s no surprise that many product analytics solutions, such as [PostHog](https://clickhouse.com/blog/london-meetup-report-scaling-analytics-with-posthog-and-introducing-housewatch), rely on ClickHouse as their primary data store and analytical engine. However, this raises an important question: should you build your own solution on top of ClickHouse or use an out\-of\-the\-box offering like PostHog?

The choice depends on several factors, including your need for flexibility in event collection, your team’s familiarity with SQL, and the extent to which you want to correlate product analytics data with other sources.

For example, in our own case:
