---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/what-is-time-series-database
topic: building-a-product-analytics-solution-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

depends on several factors, including your need for flexibility in event collection, your team’s familiarity with SQL, and the extent to which you want to correlate product analytics data with other sources. For example, in our own case:

1. **Event Collection Control:** We require precise control over the events we capture, allowing developers to decide which events to send and when. To support this, we developed a custom SDK that empowers our developers to instrument their code with full control.
2. **SQL Proficiency:** Our primary users, including product managers and growth marketers, are highly proficient in SQL, enabling them to explore data directly and create custom queries as needed.
3. **Data Correlation Across Sources:** Our [data warehouse, powered by ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse-part-2), aggregates data from sources like Salesforce, Google Analytics, and billing and metering systems. Additionally, our [observability solution for ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog) (handling logs, metrics, and traces) also relies on ClickHouse. Integrating product analytics with these datasets allows us to answer complex, cross\-functional questions. For instance, we can analyze whether customer churn correlates with errors in ClickHouse Cloud clusters (product analytics \+ observability) or track spending across different customer cohorts (product analytics \+ billing).
4. **Cost** \- we wanted both infinite retention and the ability to issue an unlimited number of queries at a fixed cost, with no constraints placed on our developers on what they can send.

For these reasons, we were confident that an in\-house solution was the right choice. Whether you decide to build or buy, the following insights may be valuable for understanding how to design and operate a ClickHouse\-powered product analytics solution effectively.

## Denormalized events [\#](/blog/building-product-analytics-with-clickhouse#denormalized-events)
