---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/what-is-time-series-database
topic: building-a-product-analytics-solution-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

11 `component` String, 12 `event` String, 13 `interaction` LowCardinality(String), 14 `payload` String, 15 `message` String 16) 17ENGINE = MergeTree 18ORDER BY created_at ``` ``` Elements of this schema are specific to Galaxy, while others are reusable. More specifically:

- **`created_at`** \- the time at which the event occurred. This is filtered in most queries and is thus the primary key (see below)
- **`environment`**\- dev/staging/production allows us to differentiate between events coming from each environment.
- **`session_id`** \- generated per user session. We generate this guid and store it in the browser session storage. Note that this means it is not consistent across tabs or browser restarts for a user \- we are interested in measuring behavior within a session. This is an implementation detail of our event capture library (see below). The columns `user_id` and `org_id` allow us to aggregate across sessions.
- **`request_id`** \- unique identifier for a specific request. We predominantly use this to correlate requests with server\-side logs.
- **`client_ip`** \- IP of the requesting client.
- **`user_id`** \- id of the logged\-in user
- **`namespace`** \- The first level in the event hierarchy. This denotes both the application from which an event originates as well as the specific view e.g. the billing page.
- **`component`** \- The component on the page from which the event was generated e.g. a form to enter user details.
- **`event`** \- the specific event. These have varying degrees of granularity. Generic events for actions which are expected to be less interesting might be `click`, `blur`, `close`. For actions which are more important for us to track we use higher fidelity events e.g. `serviceSelection`.
- **`interaction`** \- Whether the event was by a direct user interaction e.g. `click` or indirectly `triggered` through a user interaction. For example, suppose clicking a button causes a user details panel to open. While the button would have an event associated with a `click` event and interaction, a separate `user_details_panel_open` event would be created with the value `triggered` for `interaction`.
- **`payload`** \- a JSON string containing arbitrary data associated with the event. This contains columns such as the Google Analytics ID, country of origin, and page path.

The following are ClickHouse specific:
