---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/what-is-time-series-database
topic: building-a-product-analytics-solution-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

materialized view, `prod_org_creations.` Limiting these cohorts to specific periods simply requires filtering on the `created_at` time. Statistics for these cohorts can thus be computed over defined periods e.g. for a calendar month, and used to identify business trends.

```
  
```
1SELECT * FROM raw_galaxy.prod_orgs_created WHERE toStartOfMonth(created_at) = '2024-08-01'
```


```

### Measuring time between acquisition, activation and conversion [\#](/blog/building-product-analytics-with-clickhouse#measuring-time-between-acquisition-activation-and-conversion)

Growth marketers will be familiar with the terms acquisition, activation, and conversion. These stages represent key points in a user’s journey and are critical for driving sustainable business growth. Here’s how we define and approach these phases:

- **Acquisition**: This is the process of attracting and acquiring new users to your platform. For us, acquisition is achieved when a user signs up and creates a service in ClickHouse Cloud.
- **Activation**: Activation refers to the moment a user experiences the core value of your product for the first time. For us, this happens when a user loads data into a service.
- **Conversion**: Conversion is the point where a user becomes a paying customer. For us, this occurs when the user enters their credit card details.

Typically, we are interested in the time it takes for users to move through these phases and the % of users who complete each one. We perform this analysis in the context of monthly cohorts as described above.

In order to do this, we create incremental materialized views that represent each of these above steps. For example, the acquisition is recorded with the earlier view `prod_org_creations.` Similar views `prod_service_creations` and `prod_conversion` capture when a service was created and when a user becomes a paying customer.

For example the following user captures when a service is created.

```
  
```
1CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW galaxy.prod_service_creations_mv TO galaxy.prod_service_creations
2(
3   `created_at` DateTime('UTC'),
4   `service_id` String,
5   `org_id` UUID
6)
7AS SELECT
8   created_at,
9   JSON_VALUE(payload, '$.properties.service.id') AS service_id,
10   org_id
11FROM galaxy.forensics
12WHERE (environment = 'production') AND (event = 'createdInstance')
```


```

Likewise, with a small change to the `WHERE` clause we use the following (as a Materialized view) to identify conversions to paying customers:
