---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/what-is-time-series-database
topic: building-a-product-analytics-solution-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

over the past 14 days to understand their progress through onboarding and instance creation workflows. Specifically, it aims to identify the common behavior of users who skip a specific step in the product \- onboarding in this case.

To do this, it calculates the earliest time (signup\_time) when each user created their account, determined by the first occurrence of the event 'user\-created'. The query also uses a [windowFunnel function](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/parametric-functions#windowfunnel) with a 7\-day time window to measure how far users progressed through a predefined series of onboarding actions. These steps include account creation, organization setup, navigating to an onboarding page, submitting a form to create a new service, and creating an instance.

Additionally, the query tracks the number of times users chose to skip onboarding (`skipOnboardingClick`) and counts the number of instance creation events (`CREATE_INSTANCE` or `createdInstance`). Finally, it groups the results by `user_id` and filters the output to include only users who made progress through the onboarding funnel (indicated by a level greater than 0\) and who skipped onboarding at least once.

```
  
```
1SELECT
2    user_id,
3    minIf(created_at, event = 'user-created') AS signup_time,
4    windowFunnel(6048000000000000)(created_at, event = 'user-created', 
5      event = 'org-created', (event = 'signin') AND 
6      (path(JSON_VALUE(payload, '$."properties"."page"')) = '/onboard'), 
7      (component = 'createNewService') AND (event = 'submitButtonClick'), 
8      ((component = 'AuditRecordUtils') AND (event = 'CREATE_INSTANCE')) 
9      OR (event = 'createdInstance')) AS level,
10    countIf((component = 'onboardingLayout') 
11      AND (event = 'skipOnboardingClick')) AS skipped_onboarding,
12    countIf(((component = 'AuditRecordUtils') 
13      AND (event = 'CREATE_INSTANCE')) OR (event = 'createdInstance')) AS created_instance_check
14FROM galaxy.prod_forensics
15WHERE created_at >= (now() - toIntervalDay(14))
16GROUP BY user_id
17HAVING (level > 0) AND (skipped_onboarding > 0)
```


```

### Retention \& Churn [\#](/blog/building-product-analytics-with-clickhouse#retention--churn)

Acquiring customers represents only the first step in any successful business \- retaining them is equally essential. We can measure this retention through churn, where a "churned" customer is one who has not been retained. Measuring churn involves computing the percentage of users who stop or reduce a specific action during a time period where this action represents successful retention. Once churned users can be identified (or, better, those at risk of churning), we can correlate this with other statistics and identify issues in the product \- potentially using other tools such as session replays.
