---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/what-is-time-series-database
topic: building-a-product-analytics-solution-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.25'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

mentioned above, like many companies we aim to correlate product behaviour with top of funnel activities performed prior to usage of the service. For this we need to correlate product accounts (organizations in our case) with website traffic.

For ClickHouse, the latter dataset is represented by google analytics which we periodically sync to our warehouse. On signing up to ClickHouse Cloud, a user's google analytics id is passed (via the URL). This id is consumed by the client library for galaxy and included in event payloads. This allows us to in turn analyze the historical and future use of content by an organization signed up to ClickHouse Cloud. Extracting the Google Analytics id for each account requires us to process the payload:

```
  
```
1SELECT
2    created_at AS signup_date,
3    replaceOne(JSONExtractString(payload, 'data', 'tracker', 'utm_ga'), 'GA1.1.', '') AS ga
4FROM galaxy.prod_forensics
5WHERE namespace = 'signup'
6ORDER BY created_at DESC
```


```

With this list of google analytics ids we can answer questions such as "what content do people read before creating an account?"

```
  
```
1WITH gas AS
2	(
3    	SELECT replaceOne(JSONExtractString(JSONExtractRaw(JSONExtractRaw(payload, 'data'), 'tracker'), 'utm_ga'), 'GA1.1.', '') AS ga
4    	FROM raw_galaxy.prod_forensics
5    	WHERE (namespace = 'signup') AND (ga != '')
6    	ORDER BY created_at DESC
7	)
8SELECT
9	title,
10	uniq(user_pseudo_id) AS users,
11	countIf(event_name = 'page_view') AS views
12FROM dbt_marts_google_analytics.events_daily
13WHERE (user_pseudo_id IN (gas)) AND (title != '')
14GROUP BY title
15ORDER BY users DESC
16LIMIT 10
```


```

### A/B testing with GrowthBook [\#](/blog/building-product-analytics-with-clickhouse#ab-testing-with-growthbook)

SaaS businesses look to optimize activation and conversion ratios. This invariably requires some experimentation with product onboarding and usage flows, with a need to measure the effects of changes to key metrics. Performing this methodically requires an A/B testing framework, where different users are exposed to different variations of a feature or flow, and their behavior is measured to assess the impact of each on key metrics. At ClickHouse, we use GrowthBook, an open\-source experimentation platform, to manage and analyze these experiments. GrowthBook aligns with our preference for open\-source tools, offering the flexibility to integrate seamlessly with our existing analytics stack while maintaining transparency and control over our experimentation framework.
