---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/versionedcollapsingmergetree.md)#
topic: versionedcollapsingmergetree-table-engine-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

creating a `VersionedCollapsingMergeTree` table, the same [clauses](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree) are required as when creating a `MergeTree` table. Deprecated Method for Creating a TableNoteDo not use this method in new projects. If possible, switch old projects to the method described above.

```
CREATE TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] [db.]table_name [ON CLUSTER cluster]
(
    name1 [type1] [DEFAULT|MATERIALIZED|ALIAS expr1],
    name2 [type2] [DEFAULT|MATERIALIZED|ALIAS expr2],
    ...
) ENGINE [=] VersionedCollapsingMergeTree(date-column [, samp#table_engines_versionedcollapsingmergetreeling_expression], (primary, key), index_granularity, sign, version)

```
All of the parameters except `sign` and `version` have the same meaning as in `MergeTree`.- `sign` — Name of the column with the type of row: `1` is a "state" row, `-1` is a "cancel" row.

Column Data Type — `Int8`.
- `version` — Name of the column with the version of the object state.

The column data type should be `UInt*`.

## Collapsing[​](#table_engines_versionedcollapsingmergetree "Direct link to Collapsing")

### Data[​](#data "Direct link to Data")

Consider a situation where you need to save continually changing data for some object. It is reasonable to have one row for an object and update the row whenever there are changes. However, the update operation is expensive and slow for a DBMS because it requires rewriting the data in the storage. Update is not acceptable if you need to write data quickly, but you can write the changes to an object sequentially as follows.

Use the `Sign` column when writing the row. If `Sign = 1` it means that the row is a state of an object (let's call it the "state" row). If `Sign = -1` it indicates the cancellation of the state of an object with the same attributes (let's call it the "cancel" row). Also use the `Version` column, which should identify each state of an object with a separate number.

For example, we want to calculate how many pages users visited on some site and how long they were there. At some point in time we write the following row with the state of user activity:

```
┌──────────────UserID─┬─PageViews─┬─Duration─┬─Sign─┬─Version─┐
│ 4324182021466249494 │         5 │      146 │    1 │       1 |
└─────────────────────┴───────────┴──────────┴──────┴─────────┘

```

At some point later we register the change of user activity and write it with the following two rows.
