---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-september-2022-deleting-data-can-make-you-feel-better
ch_version_introduced: '1.0002'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

please upgrade \- it is a Long Term Support release. ## Query of the Month: Deleting data can make you feel better [\#](/blog/newsletter_2022_september#query-of-the-month-deleting-data-can-make-you-feel-better) For this month, let’s keep it simple. And tongue in cheek, just a little bit.

If there is one new feature in ClickHouse 22\.8 that you absolutely must try it’s the new DELETE query. Up to now, the only way to delete specific rows in ClickHouse was to use an `ALTER TABLE table DELETE WHERE cond` statement. It would asynchronously rewrite all data files containing rows matching the condition. Since data files in ClickHouse can by default be up to 150 GB this was very expensive and could lead to significant CPU and memory usage.

The new DELETE query takes a different approach. Instead of physically deleting all data immediately it only marks the specified rows as deleted using a hidden column. The data is still there, but it is transparently filtered out of queries. Effectively, all queries are executed with an additional condition `WHERE _deleted = false`. Later, as ClickHouse merges files in the background it will drop any rows marked as deleted during the merge process.

Let’s see how useful the new DELETE query can be.

Just for fun, let’s create a table with a portfolio of stablecoins (cost is cost of purchase per coin on January 1, 2022, price is the value on 26 August 2022\):

```
CREATE TABLE mymoney engine = MergeTree ORDER BY coin AS
SELECT 'USDC' AS coin, 1000 AS amount, 1.0002 AS cost, 0.9999 AS price
UNION ALL SELECT 'USDT', 1000, 1.0001, 1.00
UNION ALL SELECT 'USTC', 1000, 1.00, 0.0275

```

And let’s calculate our portfolio return:

```
SELECT sum(amount * cost) cost, sum(amount * price) value,
value - cost gain_loss, 1 - value / cost pct  FROM mymoney

```

We lost 32% of our money! What happened? Turns out TerraUSD (USTC) was not such a [“stable” stablecoin after all](https://www.investopedia.com/terrausd-crash-shows-risks-of-algorithmic-stablecoins-5272010).

But no matter, the DELETE query will take care of this:

```
SET allow_experimental_lightweight_delete = 1
DELETE FROM mymoney WHERE coin = 'USTC'

```

And now our portfolio return looks much better. If only it was that simple…

## Reading Corner [\#](/blog/newsletter_2022_september#reading-corner)

What we’ve been reading:
