---
source: blog
url: https://www.mskcc.org/
topic: how-memorial-sloan-kettering-cancer-center-is-using-clickhouse-to-accelerate-cancer-research
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

of genomic data driven by advances in DNA sequencing. Initially developed for MSK's own research, the platform quickly grew into an open\-source project supported by leading institutions worldwide, including Dana\-Farber, MD Anderson, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, and others.

Cancer, at its core, is a disease of the genome. Mutations in DNA, often caused by factors like smoking or sun exposure, disrupt the body's ability to control tissue growth, leading to tumors. With cBioPortal, researchers can analyze these mutations across large cohorts of patients, identifying patterns that reveal how different types of cancer develop and behave.

"Reading this data lets us peer into the root cause of cancer and see biological pathways that are worthy of inquiry," Aaron explains. "Because the mutations are the root cause, we can develop treatments and target them much more specifically and intelligently."

The platform's filtering and visualization tools make complex genomic data more accessible. For example, cBioPortal makes it possible to explore how specific genetic changes — such as mutations in the TP53 gene, a key regulator for DNA damage repair — affect survival rates or treatment outcomes. By transforming raw data into actionable insights, Aaron and his team are helping to advance global cancer research and improve patient care worldwide.

## Cracking the data bottleneck [\#](/blog/how-memorial-sloan-kettering-cancer-center-is-using-clickhouse-to-accelerate-cancer-research#cracking-the-data-bottleneck)

Over the past 15 years, the scale of cBioPortal's data has grown dramatically. Today, the platform supports over 140,000 patient records in its internal MSK instance, plus an additional 220,000 records in external databases such as the GENIE consortium. The human genome, meanwhile, consists of around 22,000 genes, with RNA expression data from patient records generating billions of rows. Altogether, these datasets add up to over 4 billion data points. "Our ultimate goal is to support 1 million patients with multiple samples," Aaron says.

This increasing scale, however, took its toll on cBioPortal's old data infrastructure, causing it to become "extremely slow." The MySQL\-based architecture, designed for Online Transaction Processing (OLTP), struggled with the portal's complex analytical queries. Filtering or analyzing patient cohorts often required bringing entire datasets into memory just to filter and count them in Java. "You would have a researcher waiting a minute or more to see the results of their filtering," Aaron says. "We were embarrassed as developers."
