---
source: blog
url: https://www.mskcc.org/
topic: how-memorial-sloan-kettering-cancer-center-is-using-clickhouse-to-accelerate-cancer-research
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

required bringing entire datasets into memory just to filter and count them in Java. "You would have a researcher waiting a minute or more to see the results of their filtering," Aaron says. "We were embarrassed as developers."

Reflecting on the old setup, he adds, "We were doing much too much work in our service layer, exchanging performance for what I call 'developer ergonomics.' It felt easier to do things that way, but what we realized was that it was very unperformant at scale."

As more institutions adopted cBioPortal and contributed genomic and clinical datasets, the MSK team recognized that their OLTP architecture couldn't meet the demands of modern cancer genomics. "We knew we had to do something about this," Aaron says.

## Solving the problem with ClickHouse [\#](/blog/how-memorial-sloan-kettering-cancer-center-is-using-clickhouse-to-accelerate-cancer-research#solving-the-problem-with-clickhouse)

In their search for a better database, the cBioPortal team understood that they first needed to find the right solution. "We realized that for doing analytical queries, we should be using an analytical database," Aaron says. "That's how we found ClickHouse."

As Aaron explains, the MSK team chose ClickHouse for its ability to process massive datasets at blazing speed, thanks to its columnar storage and distributed architecture. As an [Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) database](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/faq/general/olap), ClickHouse is purpose\-built to handle complex analytical queries, making it the ideal choice for cBioPortal's growing needs.

Their first step was proving the concept. "We wanted to get right to business, proving that the optimization concept was viable and reimplementing all of this filtering logic in SQL," Aaron says. Over a six\-month period, the team rebuilt 20 endpoints that filter patients and samples, designing a denormalized schema in ClickHouse tailored to the endpoints' needs. They also used Sling to copy the MySQL schema into ClickHouse for rapid prototyping.
