---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-release-23-05#parquet-reading-even-faster-michael-kolupaev
topic: clickhouse-release-23-8
ch_version_introduced: '23.7'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

Tanay Tummalapalli, VanDarkholme7, Yury Bogomolov, cfanbo, copperybean, daviddhc20120601, ekrasikov, gyfis, hendrik\-m, irenjj, jiyoungyoooo, jsc0218, justindeguzman, kothiga, nikitakeba, selfuppen, xbthink, xiebin, Илья Коргун, 王智博 ## Files, files, and more files [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-08#files-files-and-more-files) ### Reading files faster (Michael Kolupaev/Pavel Kruglov) [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-08#reading-files-faster-michael-kolupaevpavel-kruglov)

We’ve highlighted our efforts to improve Parquet performance in several recent releases [\[1]\[2]](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-release-23-05#parquet-reading-even-faster-michael-kolupaev). While improving performance is a never\-ending journey, changes in 23\.8 are significant in that they bring us to a point where we are more satisfied with the current read performance for Parquet files. Even better, some of these improvements also apply to other file types, such as JSON and CSV.

In summary, ClickHouse now:

- **Skips reading row groups by utilizing metadata in Parquet files**, which captures the numeric range for a column. This long\-awaited feature provides dramatic speedup, as we’ll show.
- **Exploits metadata to provide fast counts** on most file formats, including Parquet, by avoiding unnecessary reads.
- **Allows the use of filename metadata in filter** **clauses to avoid reading files**. When applied to large file lists on object stores such as S3, this can avoid significant I/O and reduce queries from seconds to ms. This improvement applies to all file types.

To illustrate the benefits these additions can bring, we’ll utilize a dataset for PyPI: The Python Package Index. Each row in this dataset represents the download of a Python package using a tool such as pip. We have provided Parquet files containing the downloads for all packages for one day. This consists of around 125\.69GiB of Paquet over 1657 files with a total of 900 million rows.

*All of the following tests were performed on a GCE `e2-highmem-8` instance with 64GiB of RAM and 16 cores local to the GCS bucket in us\-central\-1\.*

Before 23\.8, a count on these files could be expensive. An arbitrary column from each file would be downloaded in full, read, and the total computed. Running this on a local Macbook:

```
--23.7
SELECT count()
FROM s3('https://storage.googleapis.com/clickhouse_public_datasets/pypi/file_downloads/2023-07-31/*.parquet')

┌───count()─┐
│ 900786589 │
└───────────┘

1 row in set. Elapsed: 26.488 sec. Processed 900.79 million rows, 134.94 GB (34.01 million rows/s., 5.09 GB/s.)

--23.8

SELECT count()
FROM s3('https://storage.googleapis.com/clickhouse_public_datasets/pypi/file_downloads/2023-07-31/*.parquet')

1 row in set. Elapsed: 11.431 sec. Processed 900.79 million rows, 56.22 KB (78.80 million rows/s., 4.92 KB/s.)
Peak memory usage: 44.43 MiB.

```
