---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing
topic: a-deep-dive-into-apache-parquet-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '2.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

should they wish to control the number of row groups when writing. The settings for this syntax allow the number of row groups to be reasoned about easily, with the number of rows equal to the minimum of:

- [min\_insert\_block\_size\_bytes](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#min-insert-block-size-bytes) \- Sets the minimum number of bytes in the block, with smaller\-sized blocks are squashed into bigger ones. This effectively limits the number of rows by a size in bytes. Defaults to 256MB uncompressed.
- [min\_insert\_block\_size\_rows](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#min-insert-block-size-rows) \- The minimum number of rows in the block that is passed to the arrow client, with smaller\-sized blocks squashed into bigger ones. Defaults to 1m.
- [output\_format\_parquet\_row\_group\_size](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/formats#output_format_parquet_row_group_size). Row group size in rows, defaults to 1m.

Users can tune these values based on your total number of rows, their average size and the target number of row groups.

For `SELECT` queries using the `FORMAT` clause e.g. `SELECT * FROM uk_price_paid FORMAT Parquet`, as well as the [`INTO OUTFILE`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/knowledgebase/file-export#using-into-outfile-clause) clause, the factors determining the group size are more complex. Most importantly, these approaches tend to result in a very large number of row groups in files \- potentially negatively impacting compression and read performance. For these reasons we currently recommend using the `INSERT INTO FUNCTION` approach.

The differences in these two approaches to exporting Parquet files can lead to varying file sizes depending on the approach and the resulting effective compression. For readers returning from our previous blog post, this addresses why different queries produced variable file sizes \- smaller row group sizes don’t compress as well. In general, we recommend the `INSERT INTO FUNCTION <file/s3>` approach to writing as it utilizes more sensible defaults and allows row group sizes to be controlled easily. In future releases, we plan to address any inconsistencies in behavior.

Other tools, as well as the official Apache Arrow libraries (used by ClickHouse) for writing Parquet files, allow the number of row groups to also be configured. For how the row group size potentially can impact read performance read on.

### Types \& encoding [\#](/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing-internals-row-groups#types--encoding)
