---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing
topic: a-deep-dive-into-apache-parquet-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '2.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

Apache Arrow libraries (used by ClickHouse) for writing Parquet files, allow the number of row groups to also be configured. For how the row group size potentially can impact read performance read on. ### Types \& encoding [\#](/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing-internals-row-groups#types--encoding)

Parquet is a binary format where column values are stored with a specific type of [either boolean, numeric(int32, int64, int96, float, double), byte array(binary), or fixed length binary](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/file-format/types/). These primitive types can be annotated with information specifying how they should be interpreted to create “logical types” such as String and Enum. For example, the logical String type is encoded in a byte array with an annotation indicating UTF8 encoding. See [here](https://github.com/apache/parquet-format/blob/master/LogicalTypes.md) for further details.

Since its initial inception, Parquet has had numerous extensions, not at least around how data can be encoded. This includes:

- Dictionary encoding builds a dictionary of all the distinct values of a column, replacing the original value with its respective index in the dictionary. This is particularly effective on low cardinality columns and helps deliver consistent performance across column types. This can be applied to numeric and byte array\-based types.
- [Dictionary\-encoded](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dictionary_coder) values, booleans, and repetition and definition levels are [Run Length Encoded](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Run-length_encoding) (RLE). This compresses columns by replacing consecutive repeating values with one occurrence and a number indicating the repetition. In this case, higher compression is achieved when more of the same values occur consecutively. The cardinality of a column thus also directly impacts compression efficiency. Note that this RLE is combined with [Bit Packing](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/file-format/data-pages/encodings/#a-namerlearun-length-encoding--bit-packing-hybrid-rle--3) to minimize the number of bits required for storage.
- [Delta encoding](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/file-format/data-pages/encodings/#a-namedeltaencadelta-encoding-delta_binary_packed--5) can be applied to integer values. In this case, the delta between values is stored instead of the real value (except the first value). This is particularly effective when consecutive values have small or constant variations, such as DateTime values with millisecond granularity, since the deltas occupy fewer bits.
- Other encoding techniques are also now available, including [Byte Stream Split.](https://parquet.apache.org/docs/file-format/data-pages/encodings/#a-namedeltaencadelta-encoding-delta_binary_packed--5)

Currently, ClickHouse utilizes the default encodings when writing Parquet files, which enables dictionary encoding by default. The encoding used for a column cannot be controlled with settings, preventing the use of delta encoding for integers, although this is being considered as part of future improvements (see below).
