---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing
topic: a-deep-dive-into-apache-parquet-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '2.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

``` > Note: do not add a compression extension to the parquet format e.g. `house_prices.parquet.gzip`. This will cause the Parquet file to be compressed again once written \- an unnecessary overhead for which there will be minimal benefit.

| **Compression (level)** | **CSV** | **JSONEachRow** | **Parquet** |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| None | 3\.5 GB | 6\.9 GB | 348 MB |
| LZ4 (1\) | 459 MB | 493 MB | 244 MB |
| GZIP (6\) | 417 MB | 481 MB | 183 MB |
| ZSTD (1\) | 388 MB | 434 MB | 196 MB |
| Snappy | Not Supported | Not Supported | 241 MB |
| XZ (6\) | 321 MB | 321 MB | Not Supported |
| BZIP2 (6\) | 233 MB | 248 MB | Not Supported |
| Brotli (1\) | 360 MB | 400 MB | **174 MB** |



As shown, Parquet, even without compression, is only 40% larger than the best text\-based alternative of CSV with BZIP2\. With Brotli compression, Parquet is 30% smaller than this compressed CSV. While BZIP2 achieves the best compression rates for text formats, this compression approach is also considerably slower. This is illustrated below where we show the timings for the above (fastest of 3 runs). While this will be dependent on the ClickHouse implementation and hardware (Mac Pro 2021\), Parquet is comparable to the write speeds of all compressed textual formats and experiences minimal overhead when compressing. Compared to the CSV with BZIP2, Parquet’s best compression (Brotli) is almost 10x faster. This compression technique is also twice as slow for Parquet as other formats, with ZSTD and GZIP offering similar compression to CSV with BZIP2 at over 25x the speed. Despite Parquet encoding currently being single\-threaded (unlike text formatting), the format compares favorably regarding write performance. We expect future improvements to parallelize Parquet encoding to have a significant impact on these write timings.
