---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing
topic: a-deep-dive-into-apache-parquet-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '2.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

a large number of rows from a table since arbitrary sort orders can be memory bound: the amount of memory spent is proportional to the volume of data for sorting. The user has several options in this case:

- Utilize the setting `max_bytes_before_external_sort`. If it is set to 0 (the default), external sorting is disabled. If it is enabled, when the volume of data to sort reaches the specified number of bytes, the collected data is sorted and dumped into a temporary file. This will be considerably slower than an in\-memory sort. This value should be set conservatively and less than the `max_memory_usage` setting.
- If the `ORDER BY` expression has a prefix that coincides with the table sorting key, you can use the `optimize_read_in_order` setting. This is enabled by default and means the ordering of the data is exploited, avoiding memory issues. Note that there are performance benefits to disabling this setting, specifically for queries with a large LIMIT and where many rows need to be read before the WHERE condition matches.

In most cases, ordering the ClickHouse table (via the ORDER BY clause on table creation) will have been optimized for query performance and compression. While Option 2 often makes sense and will yield immediate improvements, results will vary. Users can also inspect the Parquet metadata, as shown earlier, to identify poorly compressed columns and possible candidates for the ORDER BY clause. Optimal compression is likely achieved when the column order places lower cardinality keys first in the ORDER BY clause ([similar to ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes#ordering-key-columns-efficiently)), thus ensuring the most consecutive sequences of values.

Using the ORDER BY key of the UK house price table `(postcode1, postcode2, addr1, addr2)`, we repeat our Parquet export using GZIP. This reduces our parquet file by around 20% to 148MB at the expense of write performance. Again we can use the new `ParquetMetadata` to identify the compression of each column \- below, we highlight the differences before and after sorting for the postcode1 column. Note how the uncompressed size of this column is dramatically reduced.

```
INSERT INTO FUNCTION file('house_prices-ordered.parquet') SELECT *
FROM uk_price_paid
ORDER BY
	postcode1 ASC,
	postcode2 ASC,
	addr1 ASC,
	addr2 ASC

0 rows in set. Elapsed: 38.812 sec. Processed 28.11 million rows, 2.68 GB (724.34 thousand rows/s., 69.07 MB/s.)

```
