---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing
topic: a-deep-dive-into-apache-parquet-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '2.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

the file function, but this equally applies to the other table functions such as s3 (although factors will apply here \- see “A small note on S3”). On larger files, this difference is likely to be more appreciable.

Fortunately, recent developments to parallelize this work within a file dramatically improve performance (although more can be done \- see “Future Work”). These improvements are currently only relevant to s3 and url functions and **represent the first efforts** at improving parallelization. Future versions of ClickHouse will parallelize the reading and decoding of a single Parquet file, including for the file function, with the number of threads controlled by the setting `max_threads` (defaults to the number of CPU cores). Below we query the single Parquet file with the above query to highlight the difference in performance with and without the changes. Note these files are on s3 for which this recent improvement applies:

```
SELECT
	toYear(toDate(date)) AS year,
	round(avg(price)) AS price,
	bar(price, 0, 1000000, 80)
FROM s3('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/uk-house-prices/parquet/house_prices_all.parquet')
GROUP BY year
ORDER BY year ASC

29 rows in set. Elapsed: 18.017 sec. Processed 28.11 million rows, 224.90 MB (1.56 million rows/s., 12.48 MB/s.)

//with changes

SET input_format_parquet_preserve_order = 0

SELECT
	toYear(toDate(date)) AS year,
	round(avg(price)) AS price,
	bar(price, 0, 1000000, 80)
FROM s3('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/uk-house-prices/parquet/house_prices_all.parquet')
GROUP BY year
ORDER BY year ASC

29 rows in set. Elapsed: 8.428 sec. Processed 26.69 million rows, 213.49 MB (3.17 million rows/s., 25.33 MB/s.)

```

As shown, performance here is considerably improved.

### Importance of row groups [\#](/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing-internals-row-groups#importance-of-row-groups)

Parallelization here is achieved at a row group level. While the implementation is subject to change and further improvements, this improvement assigns a thread to each row group that is responsible for reading and decoding. To avoid excessive memory consumption, the `input_format_parquet_max_block_size` controls how much to decode at once per thread and thus determines the amount of uncompressed data held in memory. The ability to control this is useful for highly compressed data or when you have many threads, which can result in high memory usage.

Given parallelization is currently performed at the row group level, users may wish to consider the number of row groups in their files. As shown earlier, ClickHouse Local can be used to determine the number of row groups:

```
clickhouse@dclickhouse % ./clickhouse local --query "SELECT num_row_groups FROM file('house_prices.parquet', ParquetMetadata)"
53

```
