---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing
topic: a-deep-dive-into-apache-parquet-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '2.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

to consider the number of row groups in their files. As shown earlier, ClickHouse Local can be used to determine the number of row groups: ``` clickhouse@dclickhouse % ./clickhouse local --query "SELECT num_row_groups FROM file('house_prices.parquet', ParquetMetadata)" 53 ```

See earlier on how settings can be used to control the number of row groups when writing Parquet files with ClickHouse.

Therefore, you **need at least as many row groups as cores** for full parallelization. Below, we query a version of the `house_price.parquet` file, which has only a single row group \- see [here](https://gist.github.com/gingerwizard/80e60c61ee7d0623003a688f21e17a14) for how this was created. Note the impact on query performance.

```
SET input_format_parquet_preserve_order = 0
SELECT
	toYear(toDate(date)) AS year,
	round(avg(price)) AS price,
	bar(price, 0, 1000000, 80)
FROM s3('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/uk-house-prices/parquet/house_prices-1-row-group.parquet')
GROUP BY year
ORDER BY year ASC

29 rows in set. Elapsed: 19.367 sec. Processed 26.64 million rows, 213.12 MB (1.05 million rows/s., 8.40 MB/s.)

```

Conversely, a high number of row groups well beyond the number of cores is also likely to be detrimental to performance. This can potentially cause many tiny reads, increasing the amount of IO latency relative to actual decoding work. This will be most noticeable if only a few columns are read due to the fragmentation of reads. This can be mitigated when selecting all columns as adjacent reads will be coalesced. These behaviors will be most noticeable when reading with the s3 and url functions (see “A small note on S3”). A balance between parallel decoding and efficient reading is therefore required. Row group sizes in the range of 100 KB to 10MB can be considered sensible sizes. With further testing, we hope our recommendations here can become more specific.

ClickHouse keeps the compressed data for each row group being read in memory (as well as the number of threads \* `input_format_parquet_max_block_size` for uncompressed data). Large row groups will therefore be memory intensive, especially when read with a high number of threads. In summary, defaults are usually sensible, but for machines with a large number of cores or in environments with low memory, users may consider ensuring row group counts are higher and their size aligns with available memory and the number of threads. If reading files, consider memory overhead if memory is low or if increasing `max_threads`.
