---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing
topic: a-deep-dive-into-apache-parquet-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '2.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 15
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

with low memory, users may consider ensuring row group counts are higher and their size aligns with available memory and the number of threads. If reading files, consider memory overhead if memory is low or if increasing `max_threads`.

Finally, note we earlier set the setting `input_format_parquet_preserve_order = 0`. The default value of 1 is for backward compatibility and ensures the data is returned in the original order, i.e., one\-row group at a time. This limits how much work can be parallelized. This is subject to change, but for now, this change in behavior is required for maximum gains.

### A small note on S3 [\#](/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing-internals-row-groups#a-small-note-on-s3)

While the parallel reading of Parquet files promises significant improvements for querying, other factors are also likely to impact the absolute query times experienced by users. If querying data that resides on S3, multiple files still bring significant benefits. For example, the [s3Cluster](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/table-functions/s3Cluster) function requires multiple files to distribute reads across all nodes in the cluster, with the initiator node creating a connection to all nodes in the cluster before dispatching each file that matches the glob pattern dynamically. This increases parallelization and performance. Region locality and network throughput of your server instance are also likely to significantly impact query performance.

We noted earlier, the impact of small row groups (and thus small column chunks) on read performance. This can also potentially also impact S3 charges. When requesting data from S3, a GET request is issued per column chunk. A larger row group size should therefore decrease the number of column chunks and resulting GET requests, potentially reducing costs. Again this is mitigated when requesting consecutive columns, as requests will be coalesced and should be balanced against the potential for parallelized decoding. Users will need to experiment to optimize for cost/performance.

## Multiple files and data lake formats [\#](/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing-internals-row-groups#multiple-files-and-data-lake-formats)
