---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing
topic: a-deep-dive-into-apache-parquet-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '2.6'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

is mitigated when requesting consecutive columns, as requests will be coalesced and should be balanced against the potential for parallelized decoding. Users will need to experiment to optimize for cost/performance. ## Multiple files and data lake formats [\#](/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing-internals-row-groups#multiple-files-and-data-lake-formats)

While Parquet has established itself as the data file format of choice for data lakes, tables would typically be represented as a set of files located in a bucket or folder. While ClickHouse can be used to read multiple Parquet files in a directory, it is typically only sufficient for ad\-hoc querying. Managing large datasets becomes cumbersome and means table abstractions by tools such as ClickHouse are loosely established at best, with no support for schema evolution or write consistency. Most importantly for ClickHouse, this approach would rely on file listing operations \- potentially expensive on object stores such as s3\. Filtering of data requires all data to be opened and read, other than limited abilities to restrict files by using glob patterns on a naming schema.

Modern data formats such as Apache Iceberg aims to address these challenges by bringing SQL table\-like functionality to files in a data lake in an open and accessible manner, including features such as:

- Schema evolution to track changes to a table over time
- The ability to create snapshots of data that define a specific version. These versions can be queried, allowing users to "time travel" between generations.
- Support for rolling back to prior versions of data quickly
- Automatic partitioning of files to assist with filtering \- historically, users would need to do this error\-prone task by hand and maintain it across updates.
- Metadata that query engines can use to provide advanced planning and filtering.

These table capabilities are usually provided by manifest files. These manifests maintain a history of the underlying data files with a complete description of their schema, partitioning, and file information. This abstraction allows for the support of immutable snapshots, organized efficiently in a hierarchical structure that tracks all changes in a table over time.

We defer an exploration of these file formats and how they can be used with ClickHouse, to a later blog post. Stay tuned.

## Conclusion \& future work [\#](/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing-internals-row-groups#conclusion--future-work)
