---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://altinity.com/blog/2020-3-23-putting-things-where-they-belong-using-new-ttl-moves
topic: ttl-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

# TTL \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

This is the multi\-page printable view of this section.
[Click here to print](#).

[Return to the regular view of this page](/altinity-kb-queries-and-syntax/ttl/).

# TTL

TTL- 1: [MODIFY (ADD) TTL in ClickHouse®](#pg-aa8d2fd51f7ff30c8a7186980faa36c8)
- 2: [What are my TTL settings?](#pg-999e491b8ff27fc2a84fb0b542e2a0fc)
- 3: [TTL GROUP BY Examples](#pg-aa7585e74ad5fc4d1296e47a4fea8470)
- 4: [TTL Recompress example](#pg-62f8acba4b7f1d56232694670e018078)

# 1 \- MODIFY (ADD) TTL in ClickHouse®

What happens during a MODIFY or ADD TTL query*For a general overview of TTL, see the article [Putting Things Where They Belong Using New TTL Moves](https://altinity.com/blog/2020-3-23-putting-things-where-they-belong-using-new-ttl-moves)
.*

## ALTER TABLE tbl MODIFY (ADD) TTL:

It’s 2 step process:

1. `ALTER TABLE tbl MODIFY (ADD) TTL ...`

Update table metadata: schema .sql \& metadata in ZK.
It’s usually cheap and fast command. And any new INSERT after schema change will calculate TTL according to new rule.

2. `ALTER TABLE tbl MATERIALIZE TTL`

Recalculate TTL for already exist parts.
It can be heavy operation, because ClickHouse® will read column data \& recalculate TTL \& apply TTL expression.
You can disable this step completely by using `materialize_ttl_after_modify` user session setting (by default it’s 1, so materialization is enabled).

```
SET materialize_ttl_after_modify=0;
ALTER TABLE tbl MODIFY TTL

```
If you will disable materialization of TTL, it does mean that all old parts will be transformed according OLD TTL rules.
MATERIALIZE TTL:

1. Recalculate TTL (Kinda cheap, it read only column participate in TTL)
2. Apply TTL (Rewrite of table data for all columns)

You also can only disable apply TTL substep via `materialize_ttl_recalculate_only` merge\_tree setting (by default it’s 0, so clickhouse will apply TTL expression)

```
ALTER TABLE tbl MODIFY SETTING materialize_ttl_recalculate_only=1;

```
It does mean, that TTL rule will not be applied during `ALTER TABLE tbl MODIFY (ADD) TTL ...` query and data is now going to be rewritten.

After this you can apply TTL (MATERIALIZE) per partition manually (which will apply the TTL and rewrite data)

```
ALTER TABLE tbl MATERIALIZE TTL [IN PARTITION partition | IN PARTITION ID 'partition_id'];

```
The idea of `materialize_ttl_after_modify = 0` and `materialize_ttl_recalculate_only = 1` is to use `ALTER TABLE tbl MATERIALIZE TTL IN PARTITION xxx; ALTER TABLE tbl MATERIALIZE TTL IN PARTITION yyy;` and materialize TTL gently or drop/move partitions manually until the old data without/old TTL is processed.

MATERIALIZE TTL done via Mutation:
