---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/use-cases/observability/clickstack/overview
topic: faster-root-cause-for-slow-traces-with-clickstack-event-deltas
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

then comparing distributions to spot which attributes appear more frequently in the slow spans than in the faster ones. This iterative process is time\-consuming and repetitive, requiring constant filtering, visualization, and comparison. ### Get started with ClickStack [\#](/blog/faster-root-cause-for-slow-traces-with-clickstack-event-deltas#test)

Discover the world’s fastest and most scalable open source observability stack, in seconds.

[Try now](https://clickhouse.com/docs/use-cases/observability/clickstack/getting-started?loc=blog-o11y-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog)
## How do Event Deltas work? [\#](/blog/faster-root-cause-for-slow-traces-with-clickstack-event-deltas#how-do-event-deltas-work)

ClickStack's Event Deltas feature is designed to completely remove the need for this manual, repetitive analysis.

**Event Deltas surfaces key attribute differences between fast and slow traces automatically**. As an exploratory tool it is designed to help users quickly understand how and why performance changes occur within their traces. Rather than relying on pre\-trained models or static alerting, **Event Deltas analyze trace data dynamically** \- comparing the properties of *normal* and *slow* traces to highlight what has changed when performance regresses.

By contrasting the latency distributions of these trace groups, **ClickStack automatically identifies which attributes are most correlated with slower behavior**, whether that’s a new deployment version, a specific endpoint, or a particular user segment.

Instead of manually filtering and inspecting individual traces, Event Deltas instantly surface the key factors driving latency differences. This makes it easier to diagnose regressions, pinpoint their likely root causes, and visually connect them to the affected traces. The result is a fast, interactive way to explore observability data that fits the core spirit of ClickStack \- helping users move from observation to insight with minimal effort.

## How are Event Deltas unique? [\#](/blog/faster-root-cause-for-slow-traces-with-clickstack-event-deltas#how-are-event-deltas-unique)

Many observability platforms use machine learning to detect and explain latency anomalies, typically by modeling latency or other KPIs over time against a partition key such as service endpoint, deployment version, or customer region. The model learns normal behavior, flags deviations, and may even suggest likely causes by identifying which attributes are most common in the anomalous data.
