---
source: blog
url: https://grupomasmovil.com/
topic: how-grupo-masmovil-monitors-radio-access-networks-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

number of calls, traffic, and literally thousands of counters per node. We don’t need all that information, so we filter it. However, we still have hundreds of counters and thousands of nodes, all publishing data every 15 minutes.

Data comes into our servers in an unstructured format, stored in files written on disk. Therefore, it is not published as event streaming. These files have a size that can be between 200kb and 40 MB (that’s a wide range indeed), but nodes with 40 MB are only a small portion. The most common case is nodes around 2\-5 MB, imagine we only have around 10\.000 nodes, we’ll be dealing with around 30 GB every 15 minutes, almost 3TB of data per day. Note: 10k nodes are not enough to offer service to the whole of Spain.

Basically we need to process thousands of files every hour, but the main problem was to read the files written on disk fast enough. Processing data is not too complicated with streaming tools. Nevertheless, we need a database that is optimal in terms of disk usage.

This is one of the benefits of ClickHouse., along with really fast\-speed queries.

With ClickHouse, you can use different codecs and compression algorithms, which is helpful in this case, as tuning compression results in significantly reduced storage burden, which is not only more efficient but more cost\-effective as well.

Let’s look at the data compression we achieved with ClickHouse in one of our tables:

| rows | disk\_size | compressed\_size | uncompressed\_size | ratio |
| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 562426183 | 351\.84 GiB | 349\.04 GiB | 1\.31 TiB | 0\.260 |


The compression is quite good, and we use much less disk compared to the actual size of the data and compared to the solution we had previously.

With our current solution, we’re using 16x times less disk usage than our previous, but most importantly, we’re keeping more data. How is that possible? First, we need to understand a little bit about formulas, legacy telecom monitoring systems, and temporal and physical aggregation.

## Formulas, Temporal, and Spatial Aggregation [\#](/blog/how-grupo-masmovil-monitors-radio-access-networks-with-clickhouse#formulas-temporal-and-spatial-aggregation)
