---
source: blog
url: https://grupomasmovil.com/
topic: how-grupo-masmovil-monitors-radio-access-networks-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

previous, but most importantly, we’re keeping more data. How is that possible? First, we need to understand a little bit about formulas, legacy telecom monitoring systems, and temporal and physical aggregation. ## Formulas, Temporal, and Spatial Aggregation [\#](/blog/how-grupo-masmovil-monitors-radio-access-networks-with-clickhouse#formulas-temporal-and-spatial-aggregation)

Earlier in this article, we’ve talked about counters; however, in almost all cases, counters alone don’t provide much helpful information. The valuable information comes from the formulas designed by our Engineering teams or the vendor of the nodes.

These formulas produce KPIs that can use one or multiple counters (and by several, I mean many; we have formulas with over 150 counters).

So, if we have hundreds of counters that are not useful and hundreds of useful KPIs, why not keep only the calculated KPIs? It could be a solution, but not a valid one, because we don’t only monitor the nodes and a certain period, users need information in different time aggregations and spatial ones.

Users find useful data in batches of 15 minutes, hourly, daily etc. and this information cannot come pre\-calculated, because that will lead to false KPIs in bigger temporal aggregations.

A quick example the success rate of calls in a node, the formula would be:

100 x (Successful Calls/ Call Attempts)

And one node in one hour:

| Time | Successful Calls | Call Attempts | Success Call Rate |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| 9:00 | 1 | 1 | 100% |
| 9:15 | 2 | 2 | 100% |
| 9:30 | 100 | 300 | 33,33% |
| 9:45 | 98 | 100 | 98% |


If we only got the final KPI, we could not get the real value of the hours, because let see if we get the AVG \-\> (100 \+ 100 \+ 33, 33 \+ 98\)/4 \= 82,83

But that value is completely tergiversated. It does not take into account that in some timestamps the number of calls was way bigger.

The real KPI would be calculated with:

```
100 * ((1+2+100+98)/(1+2+300+100)) = 49,88

```

Which is almost the half of the estimated using the average. This means that we need the information of all the counters, not the final KPI.
