---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replication.md)#
topic: replicated-table-engines-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

# Replicated\* table engines \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Engines](/docs/engines)- [Table Engines](/docs/engines/table-engines)- [MergeTree Family](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family)- Replicated\*
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replication.md)# Replicated\* table engines

NoteIn ClickHouse Cloud replication is managed for you. Please create your tables without adding arguments. For example, in the text below you would replace:
```
ENGINE = ReplicatedMergeTree(
    '/clickhouse/tables/{shard}/table_name',
    '{replica}'
)

```
with:
```
ENGINE = ReplicatedMergeTree

```

Replication is only supported for tables in the MergeTree family

- ReplicatedSummingMergeTree
- ReplicatedCoalescingMergeTree
- ReplicatedVersionedCollapsingMergeTree
- ReplicatedCollapsingMergeTree
- ReplicatedGraphiteMergeTree
- ReplicatedMergeTree
- ReplicatedReplacingMergeTree
- ReplicatedAggregatingMergeTree

Replication works at the level of an individual table, not the entire server. A server can store both replicated and non\-replicated tables at the same time.

Replication does not depend on sharding. Each shard has its own independent replication.

Compressed data for `INSERT` and `ALTER` queries is replicated (for more information, see the documentation for [ALTER](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter).

`CREATE`, `DROP`, `ATTACH`, `DETACH` and `RENAME` queries are executed on a single server and are not replicated:

- The `CREATE TABLE` query creates a new replicatable table on the server where the query is run. If this table already exists on other servers, it adds a new replica.
- The `DROP TABLE` query deletes the replica located on the server where the query is run.
- The `RENAME` query renames the table on one of the replicas. In other words, replicated tables can have different names on different replicas.

ClickHouse uses [ClickHouse Keeper](/docs/guides/sre/keeper/clickhouse-keeper) for storing replicas meta information. It is possible to use ZooKeeper version 3\.4\.5 or newer, but ClickHouse Keeper is recommended.

To use replication, set parameters in the [zookeeper](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#zookeeper) server configuration section.

NoteDon't neglect the security setting. ClickHouse supports the `digest` [ACL scheme](https://zookeeper.apache.org/doc/current/zookeeperProgrammers.html#sc_ZooKeeperAccessControl) of the ZooKeeper security subsystem.

Example of setting the addresses of the ClickHouse Keeper cluster:

```
<zookeeper>
    <node>
        <host>example1</host>
        <port>2181</port>
    </node>
    <node>
        <host>example2</host>
        <port>2181</port>
    </node>
    <node>
        <host>example3</host>
        <port>2181</port>
    </node>
</zookeeper>

```

ClickHouse also supports storing replicas meta information in an auxiliary ZooKeeper cluster. Do this by providing the ZooKeeper cluster name and path as engine arguments.
In other words, it supports storing the metadata of different tables in different ZooKeeper clusters.

Example of setting the addresses of the auxiliary ZooKeeper cluster:

```
<auxiliary_zookeepers>
    <zookeeper2>
        <node>
            <host>example_2_1</host>
            <port>2181</port>
        </node>
        <node>
            <host>example_2_2</host>
            <port>2181</port>
        </node>
        <node>
            <host>example_2_3</host>
            <port>2181</port>
        </node>
    </zookeeper2>
    <zookeeper3>
        <node>
            <host>example_3_1</host>
            <port>2181</port>
        </node>
    </zookeeper3>
</auxiliary_zookeepers>

```
