---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replication.md)#
topic: replicated-table-engines-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

in different ZooKeeper clusters. Example of setting the addresses of the auxiliary ZooKeeper cluster: ``` <auxiliary_zookeepers> <zookeeper2> <node> <host>example_2_1</host> <port>2181</port> </node> <node> <host>example_2_2</host> <port>2181</port> </node> <node> <host>example_2_3</host> <port>2181</port> </node> </zookeeper2> <zookeeper3> <node> <host>example_3_1</host> <port>2181</port> </node> </zookeeper3> </auxiliary_zookeepers> ```

To store table metadata in an auxiliary ZooKeeper cluster instead of the default ZooKeeper cluster, we can use SQL to create the table with
ReplicatedMergeTree engine as follows:

```
CREATE TABLE table_name ( ... ) ENGINE = ReplicatedMergeTree('zookeeper_name_configured_in_auxiliary_zookeepers:path', 'replica_name') ...

```

You can specify any existing ZooKeeper cluster and the system will use a directory on it for its own data (the directory is specified when creating a replicatable table).

If ZooKeeper is not set in the config file, you can't create replicated tables, and any existing replicated tables will be read\-only.

ZooKeeper is not used in `SELECT` queries because replication does not affect the performance of `SELECT` and queries run just as fast as they do for non\-replicated tables. When querying distributed replicated tables, ClickHouse behavior is controlled by the settings [max\_replica\_delay\_for\_distributed\_queries](/docs/operations/settings/settings#max_replica_delay_for_distributed_queries) and [fallback\_to\_stale\_replicas\_for\_distributed\_queries](/docs/operations/settings/settings#fallback_to_stale_replicas_for_distributed_queries).

For each `INSERT` query, approximately ten entries are added to ZooKeeper through several transactions. (To be more precise, this is for each inserted block of data; an INSERT query contains one block or one block per `max_insert_block_size = 1048576` rows.) This leads to slightly longer latencies for `INSERT` compared to non\-replicated tables. But if you follow the recommendations to insert data in batches of no more than one `INSERT` per second, it does not create any problems. The entire ClickHouse cluster used for coordinating one ZooKeeper cluster has a total of several hundred `INSERTs` per second. The throughput on data inserts (the number of rows per second) is just as high as for non\-replicated data.

For very large clusters, you can use different ZooKeeper clusters for different shards. However, from our experience this has not proven necessary based on production clusters with approximately 300 servers.
