---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replication.md)#
topic: replicated-table-engines-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

is just as high as for non\-replicated data. For very large clusters, you can use different ZooKeeper clusters for different shards. However, from our experience this has not proven necessary based on production clusters with approximately 300 servers.

Replication is asynchronous and multi\-master. `INSERT` queries (as well as `ALTER`) can be sent to any available server. Data is inserted on the server where the query is run, and then it is copied to the other servers. Because it is asynchronous, recently inserted data appears on the other replicas with some latency. If part of the replicas are not available, the data is written when they become available. If a replica is available, the latency is the amount of time it takes to transfer the block of compressed data over the network. The number of threads performing background tasks for replicated tables can be set by [background\_schedule\_pool\_size](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#background_schedule_pool_size) setting.

`ReplicatedMergeTree` engine uses a separate thread pool for replicated fetches. Size of the pool is limited by the [background\_fetches\_pool\_size](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#background_fetches_pool_size) setting which can be tuned with a server restart.

By default, an INSERT query waits for confirmation of writing the data from only one replica. If the data was successfully written to only one replica and the server with this replica ceases to exist, the stored data will be lost. To enable getting confirmation of data writes from multiple replicas, use the `insert_quorum` option.

Each block of data is written atomically. The INSERT query is divided into blocks up to `max_insert_block_size = 1048576` rows. In other words, if the `INSERT` query has less than 1048576 rows, it is made atomically.

Data blocks are deduplicated. For multiple writes of the same data block (data blocks of the same size containing the same rows in the same order), the block is only written once. The reason for this is in case of network failures when the client application does not know if the data was written to the DB, so the `INSERT` query can simply be repeated. It does not matter which replica INSERTs were sent to with identical data. `INSERTs` are idempotent. Deduplication parameters are controlled by [merge\_tree](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#merge_tree) server settings.
