---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replication.md)#
topic: replicated-table-engines-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

server configuration file. For instance: ``` <default_replica_path>/clickhouse/tables/{shard}/{database}/{table}</default_replica_path> <default_replica_name>{replica}</default_replica_name> ``` In this case, you can omit arguments when creating tables: ``` CREATE TABLE table_name ( x UInt32 ) ENGINE = ReplicatedMergeTree ORDER BY x; ``` It is equivalent to:

```
CREATE TABLE table_name (
    x UInt32
) ENGINE = ReplicatedMergeTree('/clickhouse/tables/{shard}/{database}/table_name', '{replica}')
ORDER BY x;

```

Run the `CREATE TABLE` query on each replica. This query creates a new replicated table, or adds a new replica to an existing one.

If you add a new replica after the table already contains some data on other replicas, the data will be copied from the other replicas to the new one after running the query. In other words, the new replica syncs itself with the others.

To delete a replica, run `DROP TABLE`. However, only one replica is deleted – the one that resides on the server where you run the query.

## Recovery after failures[​](#recovery-after-failures "Direct link to Recovery after failures")

If ClickHouse Keeper is unavailable when a server starts, replicated tables switch to read\-only mode. The system periodically attempts to connect to ClickHouse Keeper.

If ClickHouse Keeper is unavailable during an `INSERT`, or an error occurs when interacting with ClickHouse Keeper, an exception is thrown.

After connecting to ClickHouse Keeper, the system checks whether the set of data in the local file system matches the expected set of data (ClickHouse Keeper stores this information). If there are minor inconsistencies, the system resolves them by syncing data with the replicas.

If the system detects broken data parts (with the wrong size of files) or unrecognized parts (parts written to the file system but not recorded in ClickHouse Keeper), it moves them to the `detached` subdirectory (they are not deleted). Any missing parts are copied from the replicas.

Note that ClickHouse does not perform any destructive actions such as automatically deleting a large amount of data.
