---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replication.md)#
topic: replicated-table-engines-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

table can be automatically converted on server restart if `convert_to_replicated` flag is set at the table's data directory (`/store/xxx/xxxyyyyy-yyyy-yyyy-yyyy-yyyyyyyyyyyy/` for `Atomic` database). Create empty `convert_to_replicated` file and the table will be loaded as replicated on next server restart.

This query can be used to get the table's data path. If table has many data paths, you have to use the first one.

```
SELECT data_paths FROM system.tables WHERE table = 'table_name' AND database = 'database_name';

```

Note that ReplicatedMergeTree table will be created with values of `default_replica_path` and `default_replica_name` settings.
To create a converted table on other replicas, you will need to explicitly specify its path in the first argument of the `ReplicatedMergeTree` engine. The following query can be used to get its path.

```
SELECT zookeeper_path FROM system.replicas WHERE table = 'table_name';

```

There is also a manual way to do this.

If the data differs on various replicas, first sync it, or delete this data on all the replicas except one.

Rename the existing MergeTree table, then create a `ReplicatedMergeTree` table with the old name.
Move the data from the old table to the `detached` subdirectory inside the directory with the new table data (`/var/lib/clickhouse/data/db_name/table_name/`).
Then run `ALTER TABLE ATTACH PARTITION` on one of the replicas to add these data parts to the working set.

## Converting from ReplicatedMergeTree to MergeTree[​](#converting-from-replicatedmergetree-to-mergetree "Direct link to Converting from ReplicatedMergeTree to MergeTree")

Use [ATTACH TABLE ... AS NOT REPLICATED](/docs/sql-reference/statements/attach#attach-mergetree-table-as-replicatedmergetree) statement to attach detached `ReplicatedMergeTree` table as `MergeTree` on a single server.

Another way to do this involves server restart. Create a MergeTree table with a different name. Move all the data from the directory with the `ReplicatedMergeTree` table data to the new table's data directory. Then delete the `ReplicatedMergeTree` table and restart the server.

If you want to get rid of a `ReplicatedMergeTree` table without launching the server:

- Delete the corresponding `.sql` file in the metadata directory (`/var/lib/clickhouse/metadata/`).
- Delete the corresponding path in ClickHouse Keeper (`/path_to_table/replica_name`).

After this, you can launch the server, create a `MergeTree` table, move the data to its directory, and then restart the server.

## Recovery when metadata in the ClickHouse Keeper cluster is lost or damaged[​](#recovery-when-metadata-in-the-zookeeper-cluster-is-lost-or-damaged "Direct link to Recovery when metadata in the ClickHouse Keeper cluster is lost or damaged")
