---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/table-functions/remote.md)#
topic: remote-remotesecure-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '127.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

`{ }` are used to generate a set of shards and to specify replicas. If there are multiple pairs of `{ }`, then the direct product of the corresponding sets is generated. The following pattern types are supported.

- `{a,b,c}` \- Represents any of alternative strings `a`, `b` or `c`. The pattern is replaced with `a` in the first shard address and replaced with `b` in the second shard address and so on. For instance, `example0{1,2}-1` generates addresses `example01-1` and `example02-1`.
- `{N..M}` \- A range of numbers. This pattern generates shard addresses with incrementing indices from `N` to (and including) `M`. For instance, `example0{1..2}-1` generates `example01-1` and `example02-1`.
- `{0n..0m}` \- A range of numbers with leading zeroes. This pattern preserves leading zeroes in indices. For instance, `example{01..03}-1` generates `example01-1`, `example02-1` and `example03-1`.
- `{a|b}` \- Any number of variants separated by a `|`. The pattern specifies replicas. For instance, `example01-{1|2}` generates replicas `example01-1` and `example01-2`.


The query will be sent to the first healthy replica. However, for `remote` the replicas are iterated in the order currently set in the [load\_balancing](/docs/operations/settings/settings#load_balancing) setting.
The number of generated addresses is limited by [table\_function\_remote\_max\_addresses](/docs/operations/settings/settings#table_function_remote_max_addresses) setting.

[Previousredis](/docs/sql-reference/table-functions/redis)[Nexts3](/docs/sql-reference/table-functions/s3)- [Syntax](#syntax)- [Parameters](#parameters)- [Returned value](#returned-value)- [Usage](#usage)
	- [Addresses](#addresses)- [Examples](#examples)
	- [Selecting data from a remote server:](#selecting-data-from-a-remote-server)- [Inserting data into a table on a remote server:](#inserting-data-into-a-table-on-a-remote-server)- [Migration of tables from one system to another:](#migration-of-tables-from-one-system-to-another)- [Globbing](#globs-in-addresses)
Was this page helpful?
