---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-cloud-compatible-with-mysql
topic: a-mysql-journey
ch_version_introduced: '8.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

ClickHouse's MySQL interface to the changes required in ClickHouse to support specific MySQL syntax and the improvements to our proxy later to allow the protocol's use in Cloud. In this blog post, we explore some of these improvements.

As well as giving us an opportunity to thank wider contributions, this effort also highlights some of the improvements in the core product, which users can exploit beyond their use of BI tools. Specifically, the improvements in MySQL syntax will hopefully allow a smoother adoption for new users coming from MySQL or other OLTP data stores. For why users might want to consider moving workloads from MySQL/Postgres to ClickHouse, [we recommend a recent blog post](https://clickhouse.com/blog/migrating-data-between-clickhouse-postgres).

## It all starts with testing [\#](/blog/mysql-support-in-clickhouse-the-journey#it-all-starts-with-testing)

On announcing ClickHouse Cloud late last year, we immediately saw a latent demand for visualizing data in ClickHouse. While tools such as Grafana and Superset offer powerful dashboarding features, they either focus on specific use cases or lack the feature maturity required by enterprise teams. More importantly, often, users simply want to use the tools with which they are familiar and productive. In the spirit of meeting users where they are, we set about evaluating the effort to support the MySQL protocol more completely in ClickHouse with the intention of tools such as Google’s Looker Studio and Tableau online "just working".

***As of the time of writing, we support Looker Studio and Tableau online through the MySQL protocol. Additional improvements are underway that allow users to use AWS QuickSight.***

To achieve this, a period of testing was required. Since tools such as Looker generate SQL through query builders and user interactions (e.g., applying filters), these testing efforts identified a significant gap in support for MySQL syntax. This proved a significant and frustrating effort as often the lack of support for an expression or construct would render the tool useless, pausing further testing until resolved. Once resolved, further issues would arise, with no clear end in sight and this form of testing feeling like an endlessly recursive loop. Fortunately, after multiple enhancements and collaboration between the ClickHouse core and integrations teams, we were happy to announce support for ClickHouse OSS. Below we explore some of these enhancements, showing what is now possible.
