---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-cloud-compatible-with-mysql
topic: a-mysql-journey
ch_version_introduced: '8.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

it was not even possible to connect to Tableau online to identify other possible incompatibilities. > We would also like to recognize the efforts of [Mark from PX](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mark-van-heyningen/), who helped a lot with testing and provided invaluable guidance.

Our initial implementation of prepared statements represents a first pass and is not 100% complete. Tableau Online uses prepared statements without arguments, hardcoding all the values in the query instead of using question marks; while this choice of implementation is unusual, it did allow us to initially skip argument support. Currently, prepared statements are not parsed. The associated query is simply stored internally with a specific ID during the COM\_STMT\_PREPARE phase and executed on receiving a COM\_STMT\_EXECUTE command. The COM\_STMT\_CLOSE command initiates a cleanup.

However, the main challenge was not the missing commands support \- it was the fact that unlike COM\_QUERY, which handles most of the "regular" queries in MySQL interface, COM\_STMT\_EXECUTE uses binary protocol instead of text for responses, and it is significantly more complex than its text counterpart and way less forgiving in terms of implementation (in)accuracy.

## Not quite there [\#](/blog/mysql-support-in-clickhouse-the-journey#not-quite-there)

While the syntax improvements above enabled OSS ClickHouse users to use the MySQL protocol with their favorite tool, further work was required in order to empower our Cloud users. The native interface of ClickHouse instances in ClickHouse Cloud are not exposed publicly to the internet. This would require every Cloud instance to have its own public IP address \- infeasible as our user base grows. Furthermore, there are required networking interface features for which ClickHouse doesn't (and may never will) support e.g. load balancing of connections across a cluster. For these reasons, all communication is routed through our proxy layer powered by Istio.
