---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-cloud-compatible-with-mysql
topic: a-mysql-journey
ch_version_introduced: '8.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

Furthermore, there are required networking interface features for which ClickHouse doesn't (and may never will) support e.g. load balancing of connections across a cluster. For these reasons, all communication is routed through our proxy layer powered by Istio.

To fully support MySQL in our Istio Proxy, we also had some challenges. Once connected, the server must send the first packet and then upgrade the connection to TLS. We changed our Istio Proxy to make it able to coordinate such TLS upgrade processes. Additionally, many MySQL clients do not send [SNI information](https://knowledge.digicert.com/quovadis/ssl-certificates/ssl-general-topics/what-is-sni-server-name-indication.html#:~:text=Server%20Name%20Indication%20(SNI)%20is,IP%20address%20and%20port%20number.) in the TLS handshake, which is needed to make routing decisions. To address this, we create dedicated database users in the format `mysql4<subdomain>`, where the username’s suffix is the service domain prefix. The Proxy can then extract this as part of the handshake, where the username is available, and propagate it further to decide which ClickHouse instances to route to.

## More choices and possibilities [\#](/blog/mysql-support-in-clickhouse-the-journey#more-choices-and-possibilities)

Given the above improvements, new users to ClickHouse may be tempted to simply write queries with the MySQL SQL, which they are familiar with. While this is supported and offers a simple migration path for moving applications, we still recommend users rewrite queries in ClickHouse native syntax where resources and time permits. There are two main motivations for this.

Firstly, ClickHouse's analytical functions often allow queries to be written much simpler.

Consider the following construct: we need to find the value for a column, given the max value of another column which is not in a GROUP BY. More concretely, for the house price dataset, suppose we wish to find the year in which the most expensive house was sold for each district in London.

In MySQL syntax, this might be written as follows:
