---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/a4a96398d6e97ac2935110b426947487e2e202d9
topic: remote-table-function-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '20.8'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# Remote table function \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Setup \& maintenance](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/)
2. [Data Migration](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-data-migration/)
3. Remote table function
# Remote table function

## remote(…) table function

Suitable for moving up to hundreds of gigabytes of data.

With bigger tables recommended approach is to slice the original data by some `WHERE` condition, ideally \- apply the condition on partitioning key, to avoid writing data to many partitions at once.

```
INSERT INTO staging_table SELECT * FROM remote(...) WHERE date='2021-04-13';
INSERT INTO staging_table SELECT * FROM remote(...) WHERE date='2021-04-12';
INSERT INTO staging_table SELECT * FROM remote(...) WHERE date='2021-04-11';
....

OR 

INSERT INTO FUNCTION remote(...) SELECT * FROM staging_table WHERE date='2021-04-11';
....

```
### Q. Can it create a bigger load on the source system?

Yes, it may use disk read \& network write bandwidth. But typically write speed is worse than the read speed, so most probably the receiver side will be a bottleneck, and the sender side will not be overloaded.

While of course it should be checked, every case is different.

### Q. Can I tune INSERT speed to make it faster?

Yes, by the cost of extra memory usage (on the receiver side).

ClickHouse® tries to form blocks of data in memory and while one of limit: `min_insert_block_size_rows` or `min_insert_block_size_bytes` being hit, ClickHouse dump this block on disk. If ClickHouse tries to execute insert in parallel (`max_insert_threads > 1`), it would form multiple blocks at one time.  
So maximum memory usage can be calculated like this: `max_insert_threads * first(min_insert_block_size_rows OR min_insert_block_size_bytes)`

Default values:

```
┌─name────────────────────────┬─value─────┐
│ min_insert_block_size_rows  │ 1048545   │
│ min_insert_block_size_bytes │ 268427520 │
│ max_insert_threads          │ 0         │ <- Values 0 or 1 means that INSERT SELECT is not run in parallel.
└─────────────────────────────┴───────────┘

```
Tune those settings depending on your table average row size and amount of memory which are safe to occupy by `INSERT SELECT` query.

### Q. I’ve got the error “All connection tries failed”
