---
source: blog
url: https://www.skool.com/
topic: from-minutes-to-seconds-how-skool-s-migration-from-postgres-to-clickhouse-transformed-their-analytics
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

process seamless, delivering fast experiment results and letting the team make quick decisions without heavy optimization. > "We haven't had to optimize anything, ClickHouse is fast enough." > > Jason Anderson, Head of Data ### Behavioral analytics [\#](/blog/how-skool-uses-clickhouse-for-observability-behavioral-analytics#behavioral-analytics)

Skool also uses ClickHouse to monitor user behavior, analyzing data from key stages of the user journey, such as account creation and group joining. As Jason explains, "We're always trying to understand what users are doing on our site so we can reduce friction and make their time more enjoyable."

For instance, telemetry events are recorded for each step in the signup funnel, giving the team granular insights into where users drop off. With ClickHouse powering their analytics, Skool can segment these funnels by device type, location, and other factors, optimizing the user experience accordingly. Funnel data is visualized in Grafana, giving Skool actionable insights that help eliminate roadblocks and drive higher engagement across mobile and desktop.

### Learning on the fly [\#](/blog/how-skool-uses-clickhouse-for-observability-behavioral-analytics#learning-on-the-fly)

The adoption of ClickHouse has brought a number of benefits, from faster query times to a newfound ability to monitor real\-time analytics, experiment with new features, and gain deeper insights into user behavior. Still, Jason acknowledges Skool has more to unlock in terms of the database's full potential. For anyone considering making the switch, he shared some key learnings from their experience using ClickHouse so far.

First, he emphasizes the importance of carefully planning table structures and partition keys at the outset, as these can't be easily modified later. The team also learned that reducing the cardinality of indexes by using functions like [`toStartOfHour`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions#tostartofhour) can significantly improve performance when working with time\-based data.

Finally, Jason encourages anyone with questions about ClickHouse, especially those who are considering implementing it, to reach out to ClickHouse's support team, who he says have been responsive and helpful throughout Skool's journey with ClickHouse Cloud.

"Talk to your ClickHouse reps," he says. "They're great at what they do. They're a wealth of knowledge. And they want to make sure you're successful."

## A strong foundation [\#](/blog/how-skool-uses-clickhouse-for-observability-behavioral-analytics#a-strong-foundation)
