---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/real-world-data-noaa-climate-data
topic: using-dictionaries-to-accelerate-queries
ch_version_introduced: '45.8'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

to reflect any changes in the source data. > \* We anticipate expanding this in the future to include support for other sources supported in OSS. Below we create our dictionary using the `stations` table as the source.

```

CREATE DICTIONARY stations_dict
(
 `station_id` String,
 `state` String,
 `country_code` String,
 `name` String,
 `lat` Float64,
 `lon` Float64,
 `elevation` Float32
)
PRIMARY KEY station_id
SOURCE(CLICKHOUSE(TABLE 'stations'))
LIFETIME(MIN 0 MAX 0)
LAYOUT(complex_key_hashed_array())


```

The `PRIMARY KEY` here is the `station_id` and intuitively represents the column on which lookups will be performed. Values must be unique, i.e., rows with the same primary key will be deduplicated. The other columns represent attributes. You may notice that we have separated our location into `lat` and `lon` as the `Point` type is not currently supported as an attribute type for dictionaries. The `LAYOUT` and `LIFETIME` are less obvious and need some explanation.
Note: In ClickHouse Cloud, the dictionary will automatically be created on all nodes. For OSS, this behavior is possible if using a [Replicated](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/database-engines/replicated/) database. Other configurations will require the creation of the dictionary on all nodes manually or through the use of the [ON CLUSTER](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/distributed-ddl) clause.

### Choosing a Layout [\#](/blog/faster-queries-dictionaries-clickhouse#choosing-a-layout)

The layout of a dictionary controls how it is stored in memory and the indexing strategy for the primary key. Each of the layout options has different pros and cons.

The [`flat`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/dictionaries/external-dictionaries/external-dicts-dict-layout/#flat) type allocates an array with as many entries as the largest key value, e.g., if the largest value is 100k, the array will also have 100k entries. This is well suited to cases where you have a monotonically increasing primary key in your source data. In this case, it is very memory\-compact and provides access speeds 4\-5x faster than the hash\-based alternatives \- a simple array offset lookup is required. However, it is limited in that the key size can also not exceed 500k \- although this is configurable via the setting [`max_array_size`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/dictionaries/external-dictionaries/external-dicts-dict-layout/#flat). It is also inherently less efficient on large sparse distributions, wasting memory in such cases.
