---
source: blog
url: https://langfuse.com/
topic: langfuse-and-clickhouse-a-new-data-stack-for-modern-llm-applications
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

than 120 comments as they shared updates, explained their reasoning, and responded to community questions. “We communicated very early, transparently, and frequently about what we were planning to do and how Langfuse was going to change," Clemens says.

They also invited key users into a private focus group and released early versions for testing. When the official version shipped in December 2024, Langfuse provided a guided migration experience with a UI and background script to help users move from Postgres to ClickHouse without downtime. “A bunch of our users really appreciated that,” Clemens says.

Adoption of the new version, Langfuse v3, has been swift and promising. As of March 2025, more than a thousand self\-hosted deployments are running ClickHouse in production. “Some of our largest users ingest billions of rows,” Clemens says. “They told us they expected this migration to be a nightmare, but in the end, they were very happy.”

## Making ClickHouse easy to adopt [\#](/blog/langfuse-and-clickhouse-a-new-data-stack-for-modern-llm-applications#making-clickhouse-easy-to-adopt)

As part of the shift to ClickHouse, the Langfuse team also had to rethink how new users, especially self\-hosted ones, would get up and running. Compared to Postgres, ClickHouse introduces a few new moving parts, and some teams were naturally hesitant about managing a more involved database setup. “There are definitely some concerns when you roll out a new database that’s not as familiar for developers,” Clemens says.

To ease the transition, Langfuse created what Clemens calls a “menu” of [options](https://langfuse.com/self-hosting/infrastructure/clickhouse) tailored to different use cases. For small\-scale or proof\-of\-concept deployments, they recommend running Langfuse with Docker Compose on a virtual machine. This setup is easy to spin up and suitable for teams ingesting fewer than a million traces per month. For production use, Langfuse provides Helm charts and deployment templates for AWS, Azure, and GCP.

For teams that want a managed experience, Langfuse points users to ClickHouse Cloud (“It’s amazing; we use it ourselves,” Clemens says) or ClickHouse’s [Bring Your Own Cloud (BYOC)](https://clickhouse.com/cloud/bring-your-own-cloud) offering, where the ClickHouse team operates the instance within the customer’s own cloud environment. The latter, Clemens says, is “super attractive for enterprises that want to keep data in their own perimeter.” And of course, Langfuse Cloud remains an option for customers who want a fully hosted solution.
