---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/into-outfile.md)#
topic: into-outfile-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 1
---

# INTO OUTFILE Clause \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Statements](/docs/sql-reference/statements)- [SELECT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select)- INTO OUTFILE
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/into-outfile.md)# INTO OUTFILE Clause

`INTO OUTFILE` clause redirects the result of a `SELECT` query to a file on the **client** side.

Compressed files are supported. Compression type is detected by the extension of the file name (mode `'auto'` is used by default). Or it can be explicitly specified in a `COMPRESSION` clause. The compression level for a certain compression type can be specified in a `LEVEL` clause.

**Syntax**

```
SELECT <expr_list> INTO OUTFILE file_name [AND STDOUT] [APPEND | TRUNCATE] [COMPRESSION type [LEVEL level]]

```

`file_name` and `type` are string literals. Supported compression types are: `'none'`, `'gzip'`, `'deflate'`, `'br'`, `'xz'`, `'zstd'`, `'lz4'`, `'bz2'`.

`level` is a numeric literal. Positive integers in following ranges are supported: `1-12` for `lz4` type, `1-22` for `zstd` type and `1-9` for other compression types.

## Implementation Details[​](#implementation-details "Direct link to Implementation Details")

- This functionality is available in the [command\-line client](/docs/interfaces/client) and [clickhouse\-local](/docs/operations/utilities/clickhouse-local). Thus a query sent via [HTTP interface](/docs/interfaces/http) will fail.
- The query will fail if a file with the same file name already exists.
- The default [output format](/docs/interfaces/formats) is `TabSeparated` (like in the command\-line client batch mode). Use [FORMAT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/format) clause to change it.
- If `AND STDOUT` is mentioned in the query then the output that is written to the file is also displayed on standard output. If used with compression, the plaintext is displayed on standard output.
- If `APPEND` is mentioned in the query then the output is appended to an existing file. If compression is used, append cannot be used.
- When writing to a file that already exists, `APPEND` or `TRUNCATE` must be used.

**Example**

Execute the following query using [command\-line client](/docs/interfaces/client):

```
clickhouse-client --query="SELECT 1,'ABC' INTO OUTFILE 'select.gz' FORMAT CSV;"
zcat select.gz 

```

```
1,"ABC"

```
[PreviousINTERSECT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/intersect)[NextJOIN](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/join)- [Implementation Details](#implementation-details)
Was this page helpful?
