---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse
topic: transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

ad to display, using complex algorithms and machine learning to optimize targeting and bidding in real time. Training these models requires immense computational power and the ability to handle and analyze vast quantities of data quickly and efficiently.

When Jason joined Cognitiv in 2021, the company’s existing data solutions were costly and inefficient. Queries often took too long to complete, causing delays and driving up costs. The systems were also cumbersome to manage and required extensive maintenance and tuning. These shortcomings limited Cognitiv’s ability to experiment and improve their models, which are essential to their ad buying algorithms.

> “Data science as a discipline is not like engineering, where you can build in phases methodically,” Jason says. “Iteration time is incredibly key to a data science team workflow.”

In search of a better solution, the Cognitiv team began evaluating database systems that could power their [offline feature store](https://clickhouse.com/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse), important for engineering workflows in training new machine learning models. They considered several alternatives, but each of these solutions, while powerful, came with significant drawbacks. Namely, the high costs and added latency in data ingestion and queries were prohibitive at the scale Cognitiv required.

Finally, they discovered ClickHouse, an open\-source columnar database known for its lightning\-fast performance and efficiency. Jason says he was drawn to ClickHouse’s ability to handle large\-scale data ingestion and complex queries with minimal latency. Its background as an ad tech product also meant it came with features that were relevant to Cognitiv’s use case. Most importantly, it promised major cost savings due to its efficient use of resources.

“As a smaller company with large datasets, cost is important to us,” Jason says. “ClickHouse is fast, but its real value is in letting us better utilize our resources. Basically, we don’t need to spend as much money to solve the same problem.”

## Building a Proof of Concept [\#](/blog/transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models#building-a-proof-of-concept)

In September of 2021, the Cognitiv team kicked off a proof of concept (POC) phase. They began by setting up a small ClickHouse cluster to test its capabilities. The POC focused on a specific use case: finding data that matched certain patterns. This involved scanning large datasets and performing complex joins, which Jason says “wasn’t really feasible” with their previous architecture and database management systems.
