---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/powering-featurestores-with-clickhouse
topic: transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

capabilities. The POC focused on a specific use case: finding data that matched certain patterns. This involved scanning large datasets and performing complex joins, which Jason says “wasn’t really feasible” with their previous architecture and database management systems.

> The reason ClickHouse was good for this is because we would have very large histories of data and we might be interested in a specific sequence over a long period of time, but only for a few identifiers.”

Jason explains. He suspected ClickHouse’s indexing structures and data compression capabilities would make it an ideal fit for this particular use case, allowing them to perform these operations much more quickly and accurately.

He was right. ClickHouse was able to efficiently process queries that previously had taken hours or even days to complete. This was hugely valuable for Cognitiv’s data team, allowing them to rapidly iterate and refine their machine learning models. The team was particularly impressed with ClickHouse’s ability to maintain high performance even as data volumes increased.

The successful POC suggested that ClickHouse could meet Cognitiv’s needs not just for this specific use case, but across their entire data infrastructure.

## Transitioning to ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models#transitioning-to-clickhouse-cloud)

The original POC cluster continued to grow throughout 2022\. By the end of the year, the Cognitiv team had identified more use cases where ClickHouse could be beneficial, deciding to fully transition to ClickHouse. They built their own production cluster using the Kubernetes operator. While this setup worked well, it came with its own set of challenges.

“The issue is upgrading it, scaling it, managing the hardware outlays, all that kind of stuff,” Jason says. “And when you’re running into bugs on a Kubernetes operator, you’re on our own. You’ve got to figure it out yourself. At a certain point, we got tired of it.”

While the ClickHouse team was in the process of [building ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year), Cognitiv began weighing the potential benefits of a managed service. They waited until January of 2024, after the cloud service’s official release on AWS, to make the switch.

Not wanting to run two parallel clusters, Jason knew that one of the main challenges would be ensuring that Cognitiv’s vast amounts of data — around two petabytes — could be migrated smoothly into ClickHouse Cloud without disrupting ongoing operations.
