---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/
topic: supabase-partnership-native-postgres-replication-to-clickhouse-clickhouse-fdw-and-more
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

as out\-of\-the\-box authentication, real\-time capabilities, edge functions, and more. We share a similar vision for [ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.cloud/), aiming to provide a seamless experience for developers and data engineers building analytical applications with features like serverless, auto\-scaling, and ClickPipes.

Both of us are committed to open source across two communities: Postgres and ClickHouse. We also share a rapidly growing joint customer base. The vision of this partnership is to enable customers to seamlessly integrate Supabase and ClickHouse, helping them build out their data stack and drastically reduce time\-to\-market for different applications.

> "The Supabase team is excited to develop a phenomenal developer experience with the ClickHouse team. ClickHouse and Postgres rapidly becoming the default data stack for Supabase's largest customers. Many of our fastest\-growing AI customers are combining the two open source tools as they scale." \- **Paul Copplestone, CEO of Supabase**

> "ClickHouse is very excited to partner with Supabase to make it easy for customers to use both technologies together. Through this partnership, we aim to make it even simpler for Postgres developers to use ClickHouse in conjunction and build real\-time, data\-driven applications at scale." \- **Aaron Katz, CEO of ClickHouse Inc.**

Below is a testimonial from a joint customer [Adora](https://www.adora.so/), who uses Supabase and ClickHouse together:

> PostgreSQL provides us with our required ACID guarantees, and ClickHouse provides us the ability to perform complex analytics queries that would time out on PostgreSQL. With Supabase and ClickHouse Cloud, a lot of our operational complexity goes away. With PeerDB, we don't have to sacrifice query performance or ACID guarantees \- we can have our data stored and queryable from both worlds. We are excited to see what this partnership has in store to make it even seamless to use Supabase and ClickHouse together. \- **Oliver Tan, Founding Engineer , Adora.so**

## Native Supabase OAuth in PeerDB for Postgres CDC to ClickHouse [\#](/blog/supabase-partnership-native-postgres-replication-clickhouse-fdw#native-supabase-oauth-in-peerdb-for-postgres-cdc-to-clickhouse)
