---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/
topic: supabase-partnership-native-postgres-replication-to-clickhouse-clickhouse-fdw-and-more
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

to see what this partnership has in store to make it even seamless to use Supabase and ClickHouse together. \- **Oliver Tan, Founding Engineer , Adora.so** ## Native Supabase OAuth in PeerDB for Postgres CDC to ClickHouse [\#](/blog/supabase-partnership-native-postgres-replication-clickhouse-fdw#native-supabase-oauth-in-peerdb-for-postgres-cdc-to-clickhouse)

The first feature we are announcing as part of this partnership is the native OAuth integration of Supabase in [PeerDB](https://peerdb.io/), enabling seamless Postgres replication to ClickHouse. With this feature, customers can add their Supabase Postgres databases as data sources (aka Peers) with just one click and start replicating data from Supabase to ClickHouse to enable real\-time analytics. They do not need to explicitly enter database credentials such as hostname, database name, and more. PeerDB also performs the necessary checks to ensure that Postgres is accurately configured for replication to ClickHouse. You can find detailed steps for this integration in this [document](https://docs.peerdb.io/mirror/cdc-supabase-clickhouse) on simple Postgres replication from Supabase to ClickHouse using PeerDB. Here is a quick demo of what this looks like in action:

We are actively working on integrating PeerDB into [ClickPipes](https://clickhouse.com/cloud/clickpipes), the native ingestion service of ClickHouse. This integration will power the Postgres CDC connector in ClickPipes. We expect this integration to be available for customers in the coming months. The Native OAuth feature to seamlessly add Supabase as a data source will also be extended to ClickPipes.

A big shout\-out to Supabase for adding [critical features](https://supabase.com/blog/supabase-clickhouse-partnership) such as improved disk management and exposing modification of important Postgres replication\-related configs. These features were essential for ensuring a smooth integration of Postgres CDC from Supabase to ClickHouse.

## Support for IPV6 in PeerDB Cloud [\#](/blog/supabase-partnership-native-postgres-replication-clickhouse-fdw#support-for-ipv6-in-peerdb-cloud)

​​We recently added IPv6 support in [PeerDB Cloud](https://peerdb.cloud/) to facilitate Supabase as a native source Peer. Previously, Supabase customers had to enable an add\-on to support IPv4 for Supabase to be used as a source peer for replication to ClickHouse. This feature makes the Supabase integration even smoother, as they no longer need to enable the IPv4 add\-on; PeerDB will replicate data using the IPv6 addresses that Supabase provides by default. We plan to extend IPv6 support to the Postgres CDC connector in ClickPipes once PeerDB is fully integrated in ClickPipes.

## clickhouse\_fdw: Query ClickHouse from Supabase [\#](/blog/supabase-partnership-native-postgres-replication-clickhouse-fdw#clickhouse_fdw-query-clickhouse-from-supabase)
