---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

in the table exceeds the `inactive_parts_to_delay_insert` value, an `INSERT` is artificially slowed down. TipIt is useful when a server fails to clean up parts quickly enough. Possible values: - Any positive integer. ## inactive\_parts\_to\_throw\_insert[ŌĆŗ](#inactive_parts_to_throw_insert "Direct link to inactive_parts_to_throw_insert")

If the number of inactive parts in a single partition more than the
`inactive_parts_to_throw_insert` value, `INSERT` is interrupted with the
following error:

> "Too many inactive parts (N). Parts cleaning are processing significantly
> slower than inserts" exception."

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

## index\_granularity[ŌĆŗ](#index_granularity "Direct link to index_granularity")

Maximum number of data rows between the marks of an index. I.e how many rows
correspond to one primary key value.

## index\_granularity\_bytes[ŌĆŗ](#index_granularity_bytes "Direct link to index_granularity_bytes")

Maximum size of data granules in bytes.

To restrict the granule size only by number of rows, set to `0` (not recommended).

## initialization\_retry\_period[ŌĆŗ](#initialization_retry_period "Direct link to initialization_retry_period")

Retry period for table initialization, in seconds.

## kill\_delay\_period[ŌĆŗ](#kill_delay_period "Direct link to kill_delay_period")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## kill\_delay\_period\_random\_add[ŌĆŗ](#kill_delay_period_random_add "Direct link to kill_delay_period_random_add")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## kill\_threads[ŌĆŗ](#kill_threads "Direct link to kill_threads")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## lightweight\_mutation\_projection\_mode[ŌĆŗ](#lightweight_mutation_projection_mode "Direct link to lightweight_mutation_projection_mode")

By default, lightweight delete `DELETE` does not work for tables with
projections. This is because rows in a projection may be affected by a
`DELETE` operation. So the default value would be `throw`. However, this
option can change the behavior. With the value either `drop` or `rebuild`,
deletes will work with projections. `drop` would delete the projection so it
might be fast in the current query as projection gets deleted but slow in
future queries as no projection attached. `rebuild` would rebuild the
projection which might affect the performance of the current query, but
might speedup for future queries. A good thing is that these options would
only work in the part level, which means projections in the part that don't
get touched would stay intact instead of triggering any action like
drop or rebuild.

Possible values:

- `throw`
- `drop`
- `rebuild`

## load\_existing\_rows\_count\_for\_old\_parts[ŌĆŗ](#load_existing_rows_count_for_old_parts "Direct link to load_existing_rows_count_for_old_parts")

If enabled along with [exclude\_deleted\_rows\_for\_part\_size\_in\_merge](#exclude_deleted_rows_for_part_size_in_merge),
deleted rows count for existing data parts will be calculated during table
starting up. Note that it may slow down start up table loading.

Possible values:

- `true`
- `false`

**See Also**

- [exclude\_deleted\_rows\_for\_part\_size\_in\_merge](#exclude_deleted_rows_for_part_size_in_merge) setting

## lock\_acquire\_timeout\_for\_background\_operations[ŌĆŗ](#lock_acquire_timeout_for_background_operations "Direct link to lock_acquire_timeout_for_background_operations")
