---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

background merges. Merges occur until the total size of the source parts is larger than `max_bytes_to_merge_at_max_space_in_pool`. Merges initiated by [OPTIMIZE FINAL](/docs/sql-reference/statements/optimize) ignore `max_bytes_to_merge_at_max_space_in_pool` (only the free disk space is taken into account). ## max\_bytes\_to\_merge\_at\_min\_space\_in\_pool[​](#max_bytes_to_merge_at_min_space_in_pool "Direct link to max_bytes_to_merge_at_min_space_in_pool")

The maximum total part size (in bytes) to be merged into one part, with the
minimum available resources in the background pool.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

`max_bytes_to_merge_at_min_space_in_pool` defines the maximum total size of
parts which can be merged despite the lack of available disk space (in pool).
This is necessary to reduce the number of small parts and the chance of
`Too many parts` errors.
Merges book disk space by doubling the total merged parts sizes.
Thus, with a small amount of free disk space, a situation may occur in which
there is free space, but this space is already booked by ongoing large merges,
so other merges are unable to start, and the number of small parts grows
with every insert.

## max\_cleanup\_delay\_period[​](#max_cleanup_delay_period "Direct link to max_cleanup_delay_period")

Maximum period to clean old queue logs, blocks hashes and parts.

## max\_compress\_block\_size[​](#max_compress_block_size "Direct link to max_compress_block_size")

The maximum size of blocks of uncompressed data before compressing for writing
to a table. You can also specify this setting in the global settings
(see [max\_compress\_block\_size](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#max_compress_block_size)
setting). The value specified when the table is created overrides the global
value for this setting.

## max\_concurrent\_queries[​](#max_concurrent_queries "Direct link to max_concurrent_queries")

Max number of concurrently executed queries related to the MergeTree table.
Queries will still be limited by other `max_concurrent_queries` settings.

Possible values:

- Positive integer.
- `0` — No limit.

Default value: `0` (no limit).

**Example**

```
<max_concurrent_queries>50</max_concurrent_queries>

```

## max\_delay\_to\_insert[​](#max_delay_to_insert "Direct link to max_delay_to_insert")

The value in seconds, which is used to calculate the `INSERT` delay, if the
number of active parts in a single partition exceeds the
[parts\_to\_delay\_insert](#parts_to_delay_insert) value.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

The delay (in milliseconds) for `INSERT` is calculated by the formula:

```
max_k = parts_to_throw_insert - parts_to_delay_insert
k = 1 + parts_count_in_partition - parts_to_delay_insert
delay_milliseconds = pow(max_delay_to_insert * 1000, k / max_k)

```

For example, if a partition has 299 active parts and parts\_to\_throw\_insert
\= 300, parts\_to\_delay\_insert \= 150, max\_delay\_to\_insert \= 1, `INSERT` is
delayed for `pow( 1 * 1000, (1 + 299 - 150) / (300 - 150) ) = 1000`
milliseconds.
