---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

if a partition has 299 active parts and parts\_to\_throw\_insert \= 300, parts\_to\_delay\_insert \= 150, max\_delay\_to\_insert \= 1, `INSERT` is delayed for `pow( 1 * 1000, (1 + 299 - 150) / (300 - 150) ) = 1000` milliseconds.

Starting from version 23\.1 formula has been changed to:

```
allowed_parts_over_threshold = parts_to_throw_insert - parts_to_delay_insert
parts_over_threshold = parts_count_in_partition - parts_to_delay_insert + 1
delay_milliseconds = max(min_delay_to_insert_ms, (max_delay_to_insert * 1000)
* parts_over_threshold / allowed_parts_over_threshold)

```

For example, if a partition has 224 active parts and parts\_to\_throw\_insert
\= 300, parts\_to\_delay\_insert \= 150, max\_delay\_to\_insert \= 1,
min\_delay\_to\_insert\_ms \= 10, `INSERT` is delayed for `max( 10, 1 * 1000 * (224 - 150 + 1) / (300 - 150) ) = 500` milliseconds.

## max\_delay\_to\_mutate\_ms[​](#max_delay_to_mutate_ms "Direct link to max_delay_to_mutate_ms")

Max delay of mutating MergeTree table in milliseconds, if there are a lot of
unfinished mutations

## max\_digestion\_size\_per\_segment[​](#max_digestion_size_per_segment "Direct link to max_digestion_size_per_segment")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## max\_file\_name\_length[​](#max_file_name_length "Direct link to max_file_name_length")

The maximal length of the file name to keep it as is without hashing.
Takes effect only if setting `replace_long_file_name_to_hash` is enabled.
The value of this setting does not include the length of file extension. So,
it is recommended to set it below the maximum filename length (usually 255
bytes) with some gap to avoid filesystem errors.

## max\_files\_to\_modify\_in\_alter\_columns[​](#max_files_to_modify_in_alter_columns "Direct link to max_files_to_modify_in_alter_columns")

Do not apply ALTER if number of files for modification(deletion, addition)
is greater than this setting.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

Default value: 75

## max\_files\_to\_remove\_in\_alter\_columns[​](#max_files_to_remove_in_alter_columns "Direct link to max_files_to_remove_in_alter_columns")

Do not apply ALTER, if the number of files for deletion is greater than this
setting.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

## max\_merge\_delayed\_streams\_for\_parallel\_write[​](#max_merge_delayed_streams_for_parallel_write "Direct link to max_merge_delayed_streams_for_parallel_write")

The maximum number of streams (columns) that can be flushed in parallel
(analog of max\_insert\_delayed\_streams\_for\_parallel\_write for merges). Works
only for Vertical merges.

## max\_merge\_selecting\_sleep\_ms[​](#max_merge_selecting_sleep_ms "Direct link to max_merge_selecting_sleep_ms")

Maximum time to wait before trying to select parts to merge again after no
parts were selected. A lower setting will trigger selecting tasks in
background\_schedule\_pool frequently which result in large amount of
requests to zookeeper in large\-scale clusters

## max\_number\_of\_merges\_with\_ttl\_in\_pool[​](#max_number_of_merges_with_ttl_in_pool "Direct link to max_number_of_merges_with_ttl_in_pool")

When there is
more than specified number of merges with TTL entries in pool, do not assign
new merge with TTL. This is to leave free threads for regular merges and
avoid "Too many parts"
