---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 15
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

link to max_number_of_merges_with_ttl_in_pool") When there is more than specified number of merges with TTL entries in pool, do not assign new merge with TTL. This is to leave free threads for regular merges and avoid "Too many parts"

## max\_number\_of\_mutations\_for\_replica[​](#max_number_of_mutations_for_replica "Direct link to max_number_of_mutations_for_replica")

Limit the number of part mutations per replica to the specified amount.
Zero means no limit on the number of mutations per replica (the execution can
still be constrained by other settings).

## max\_part\_loading\_threads[​](#max_part_loading_threads "Direct link to max_part_loading_threads")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## max\_part\_removal\_threads[​](#max_part_removal_threads "Direct link to max_part_removal_threads")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## max\_partitions\_to\_read[​](#max_partitions_to_read "Direct link to max_partitions_to_read")

Limits the maximum number of partitions that can be accessed in one query.

The setting value specified when the table is created can be overridden via
query\-level setting.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

You can also specify a query complexity setting [max\_partitions\_to\_read](/docs/operations/settings/settings#max_partitions_to_read)
at a query / session / profile level.

## max\_parts\_in\_total[​](#max_parts_in_total "Direct link to max_parts_in_total")

If the total number of active parts in all partitions of a table exceeds the
`max_parts_in_total` value `INSERT` is interrupted with the `Too many parts (N)` exception.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

A large number of parts in a table reduces performance of ClickHouse queries
and increases ClickHouse boot time. Most often this is a consequence of an
incorrect design (mistakes when choosing a partitioning strategy \- too small
partitions).

## max\_parts\_to\_merge\_at\_once[​](#max_parts_to_merge_at_once "Direct link to max_parts_to_merge_at_once")

Max amount of parts which can be merged at once (0 \- disabled). Doesn't affect
OPTIMIZE FINAL query.

## max\_postpone\_time\_for\_failed\_mutations\_ms[​](#max_postpone_time_for_failed_mutations_ms "Direct link to max_postpone_time_for_failed_mutations_ms")

The maximum postpone time for failed mutations.

## max\_postpone\_time\_for\_failed\_replicated\_fetches\_ms[​](#max_postpone_time_for_failed_replicated_fetches_ms "Direct link to max_postpone_time_for_failed_replicated_fetches_ms")

The maximum postpone time for failed replicated fetches.

## max\_postpone\_time\_for\_failed\_replicated\_merges\_ms[​](#max_postpone_time_for_failed_replicated_merges_ms "Direct link to max_postpone_time_for_failed_replicated_merges_ms")

The maximum postpone time for failed replicated merges.

## max\_postpone\_time\_for\_failed\_replicated\_tasks\_ms[​](#max_postpone_time_for_failed_replicated_tasks_ms "Direct link to max_postpone_time_for_failed_replicated_tasks_ms")

The maximum postpone time for failed replicated task. The value is used if the task is not a fetch, merge or mutation.

## max\_projections[​](#max_projections "Direct link to max_projections")

The maximum number of merge tree projections.

## max\_replicated\_fetches\_network\_bandwidth[​](#max_replicated_fetches_network_bandwidth "Direct link to max_replicated_fetches_network_bandwidth")

Limits the maximum speed of data exchange over the network in bytes per
second for [replicated](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replication)
fetches. This setting is applied to a particular table, unlike the
[`max_replicated_fetches_network_bandwidth_for_server`](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#max_replicated_fetches_network_bandwidth)
setting, which is applied to the server.
