---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 18
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

of dynamic subcolumns that can be created in every column in the Wide data part after merge. It allows to reduce number of files created in Wide data part regardless of dynamic parameters specified in the data type.

For example, if the table has a column with the JSON(max\_dynamic\_paths\=1024\) type and the setting merge\_max\_dynamic\_subcolumns\_in\_wide\_part is set to 128,
after merge into the Wide data part number of dynamic paths will be decreased to 128 in this part and only 128 paths will be written as dynamic subcolumns.

## merge\_selecting\_sleep\_ms[​](#merge_selecting_sleep_ms "Direct link to merge_selecting_sleep_ms")

Minimum time to wait before trying to select parts to merge again after no
parts were selected. A lower setting will trigger selecting tasks in
background\_schedule\_pool frequently which result in large amount of requests
to zookeeper in large\-scale clusters

## merge\_selecting\_sleep\_slowdown\_factor[​](#merge_selecting_sleep_slowdown_factor "Direct link to merge_selecting_sleep_slowdown_factor")

The sleep time for merge selecting task is multiplied by this factor when
there's nothing to merge and divided when a merge was assigned

## merge\_selector\_algorithm[​](#merge_selector_algorithm "Direct link to merge_selector_algorithm")

Experimental feature. [Learn more.](/docs/beta-and-experimental-features#experimental-features)

The algorithm to select parts for merges assignment

## merge\_selector\_base[​](#merge_selector_base "Direct link to merge_selector_base")

Affects write amplification of
assigned merges (expert level setting, don't change if you don't understand
what it is doing). Works for Simple and StochasticSimple merge selectors

## merge\_selector\_blurry\_base\_scale\_factor[​](#merge_selector_blurry_base_scale_factor "Direct link to merge_selector_blurry_base_scale_factor")

Controls when the logic kicks in relatively to the number of parts in
partition. The bigger the factor the more belated reaction will be.

## merge\_selector\_enable\_heuristic\_to\_lower\_max\_parts\_to\_merge\_at\_once[​](#merge_selector_enable_heuristic_to_lower_max_parts_to_merge_at_once "Direct link to merge_selector_enable_heuristic_to_lower_max_parts_to_merge_at_once")

Experimental feature. [Learn more.](/docs/beta-and-experimental-features#experimental-features)

Enable heuristic for simple merge selector which will lower maximum limit for merge choice.
By doing so number of concurrent merges will increase which can help with TOO\_MANY\_PARTS
errors but at the same time this will increase the write amplification.

## merge\_selector\_enable\_heuristic\_to\_remove\_small\_parts\_at\_right[​](#merge_selector_enable_heuristic_to_remove_small_parts_at_right "Direct link to merge_selector_enable_heuristic_to_remove_small_parts_at_right")

Enable heuristic for selecting parts for merge which removes parts from right
side of range, if their size is less than specified ratio (0\.01\) of sum\_size.
Works for Simple and StochasticSimple merge selectors

## merge\_selector\_heuristic\_to\_lower\_max\_parts\_to\_merge\_at\_once\_exponent[​](#merge_selector_heuristic_to_lower_max_parts_to_merge_at_once_exponent "Direct link to merge_selector_heuristic_to_lower_max_parts_to_merge_at_once_exponent")

Experimental feature. [Learn more.](/docs/beta-and-experimental-features#experimental-features)

Controls the exponent value used in formulae building lowering curve. Lowering exponent will
lower merge widths which will trigger increase in write amplification. The reverse is also true.

## merge\_selector\_window\_size[​](#merge_selector_window_size "Direct link to merge_selector_window_size")

How many parts to look at once.
