---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 19
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

value used in formulae building lowering curve. Lowering exponent will lower merge widths which will trigger increase in write amplification. The reverse is also true. ## merge\_selector\_window\_size[​](#merge_selector_window_size "Direct link to merge_selector_window_size") How many parts to look at once.

## merge\_total\_max\_bytes\_to\_prewarm\_cache[​](#merge_total_max_bytes_to_prewarm_cache "Direct link to merge_total_max_bytes_to_prewarm_cache")

Only available in ClickHouse Cloud. Maximal size of parts in total to prewarm
cache during merge.

## merge\_tree\_clear\_old\_broken\_detached\_parts\_ttl\_timeout\_seconds[​](#merge_tree_clear_old_broken_detached_parts_ttl_timeout_seconds "Direct link to merge_tree_clear_old_broken_detached_parts_ttl_timeout_seconds")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## merge\_tree\_clear\_old\_parts\_interval\_seconds[​](#merge_tree_clear_old_parts_interval_seconds "Direct link to merge_tree_clear_old_parts_interval_seconds")

Sets the interval in seconds for ClickHouse to execute the cleanup of old
parts, WALs, and mutations.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

## merge\_tree\_clear\_old\_temporary\_directories\_interval\_seconds[​](#merge_tree_clear_old_temporary_directories_interval_seconds "Direct link to merge_tree_clear_old_temporary_directories_interval_seconds")

Sets the interval in seconds for ClickHouse to execute the cleanup of old
temporary directories.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

## merge\_tree\_enable\_clear\_old\_broken\_detached[​](#merge_tree_enable_clear_old_broken_detached "Direct link to merge_tree_enable_clear_old_broken_detached")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## merge\_with\_recompression\_ttl\_timeout[​](#merge_with_recompression_ttl_timeout "Direct link to merge_with_recompression_ttl_timeout")

Minimum delay in seconds before repeating a merge with recompression TTL.

## merge\_with\_ttl\_timeout[​](#merge_with_ttl_timeout "Direct link to merge_with_ttl_timeout")

Minimum delay in seconds before repeating a merge with delete TTL.

## merge\_workload[​](#merge_workload "Direct link to merge_workload")

Used to regulate how resources are utilized and shared between merges and
other workloads. Specified value is used as `workload` setting value for
background merges of this table. If not specified (empty string), then
server setting `merge_workload` is used instead.

**See Also**

- [Workload Scheduling](/docs/operations/workload-scheduling)

## min\_absolute\_delay\_to\_close[​](#min_absolute_delay_to_close "Direct link to min_absolute_delay_to_close")

Minimal absolute delay to close, stop serving requests and not
return Ok during status check.

## min\_age\_to\_force\_merge\_on\_partition\_only[​](#min_age_to_force_merge_on_partition_only "Direct link to min_age_to_force_merge_on_partition_only")

Whether `min_age_to_force_merge_seconds` should be applied only on the entire
partition and not on subset.

By default, ignores setting `max_bytes_to_merge_at_max_space_in_pool` (see
`enable_max_bytes_limit_for_min_age_to_force_merge`).

Possible values:

- true, false

## min\_age\_to\_force\_merge\_seconds[​](#min_age_to_force_merge_seconds "Direct link to min_age_to_force_merge_seconds")

Merge parts if every part in the range is older than the value of
`min_age_to_force_merge_seconds`.

By default, ignores setting `max_bytes_to_merge_at_max_space_in_pool`
(see `enable_max_bytes_limit_for_min_age_to_force_merge`).

Possible values:

- Positive integer.

## min\_bytes\_for\_compact\_part[​](#min_bytes_for_compact_part "Direct link to min_bytes_for_compact_part")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## min\_bytes\_for\_full\_part\_storage[​](#min_bytes_for_full_part_storage "Direct link to min_bytes_for_full_part_storage")

Only available in ClickHouse Cloud. Minimal uncompressed size in bytes to
use full type of storage for data part instead of packed

## min\_bytes\_for\_wide\_part[​](#min_bytes_for_wide_part "Direct link to min_bytes_for_wide_part")

Minimum number of bytes/rows in a data part that can be stored in `Wide`
format. You can set one, both or none of these settings.

## min\_bytes\_to\_prewarm\_caches[​](#min_bytes_to_prewarm_caches "Direct link to min_bytes_to_prewarm_caches")
