---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 20
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

packed ## min\_bytes\_for\_wide\_part[​](#min_bytes_for_wide_part "Direct link to min_bytes_for_wide_part") Minimum number of bytes/rows in a data part that can be stored in `Wide` format. You can set one, both or none of these settings. ## min\_bytes\_to\_prewarm\_caches[​](#min_bytes_to_prewarm_caches "Direct link to min_bytes_to_prewarm_caches")

Minimal size (uncompressed bytes) to prewarm mark cache and primary index cache
for new parts

## min\_bytes\_to\_rebalance\_partition\_over\_jbod[​](#min_bytes_to_rebalance_partition_over_jbod "Direct link to min_bytes_to_rebalance_partition_over_jbod")

Sets minimal amount of bytes to enable balancing when distributing new big
parts over volume disks [JBOD](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Non-RAID_drive_architectures).

Possible values:

- Positive integer.
- `0` — Balancing is disabled.

**Usage**

The value of the `min_bytes_to_rebalance_partition_over_jbod` setting should
not be less than the value of the
[max\_bytes\_to\_merge\_at\_max\_space\_in\_pool](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#max_bytes_to_merge_at_max_space_in_pool)
/ 1024\. Otherwise, ClickHouse throws an exception.

## min\_columns\_to\_activate\_adaptive\_write\_buffer[​](#min_columns_to_activate_adaptive_write_buffer "Direct link to min_columns_to_activate_adaptive_write_buffer")

Allow to reduce memory usage for tables with lots of columns by using adaptive writer buffers.

Possible values:

- 0 \- unlimited
- 1 \- always enabled

## min\_compress\_block\_size[​](#min_compress_block_size "Direct link to min_compress_block_size")

Minimum size of blocks of uncompressed data required for compression when
writing the next mark. You can also specify this setting in the global settings
(see [min\_compress\_block\_size](/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#min_compress_block_size)
setting). The value specified when the table is created overrides the global value
for this setting.

## min\_compressed\_bytes\_to\_fsync\_after\_fetch[​](#min_compressed_bytes_to_fsync_after_fetch "Direct link to min_compressed_bytes_to_fsync_after_fetch")

Minimal number of compressed bytes to do fsync for part after fetch (0 \- disabled)

## min\_compressed\_bytes\_to\_fsync\_after\_merge[​](#min_compressed_bytes_to_fsync_after_merge "Direct link to min_compressed_bytes_to_fsync_after_merge")

Minimal number of compressed bytes to do fsync for part after merge (0 \- disabled)

## min\_delay\_to\_insert\_ms[​](#min_delay_to_insert_ms "Direct link to min_delay_to_insert_ms")

Min delay of inserting data into MergeTree table in milliseconds, if there
are a lot of unmerged parts in single partition.

## min\_delay\_to\_mutate\_ms[​](#min_delay_to_mutate_ms "Direct link to min_delay_to_mutate_ms")

Min delay of mutating MergeTree table in milliseconds, if there are a lot of
unfinished mutations

## min\_free\_disk\_bytes\_to\_perform\_insert[​](#min_free_disk_bytes_to_perform_insert "Direct link to min_free_disk_bytes_to_perform_insert")

The minimum number of bytes that should be free in disk space in order to
insert data. If the number of available free bytes is less than
`min_free_disk_bytes_to_perform_insert` then an exception is thrown and the
insert is not executed. Note that this setting:

- takes into account the `keep_free_space_bytes` setting.
- does not take into account the amount of data that will be written by the
`INSERT` operation.
- is only checked if a positive (non\-zero) number of bytes is specified

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.
