---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 21
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

setting. - does not take into account the amount of data that will be written by the `INSERT` operation. - is only checked if a positive (non\-zero) number of bytes is specified Possible values: - Any positive integer.

NoteIf both `min_free_disk_bytes_to_perform_insert` and `min_free_disk_ratio_to_perform_insert`
are specified, ClickHouse will count on the value that will allow to perform
inserts on a bigger amount of free memory.

## min\_free\_disk\_ratio\_to\_perform\_insert[ŌĆŗ](#min_free_disk_ratio_to_perform_insert "Direct link to min_free_disk_ratio_to_perform_insert")

The minimum free to total disk space ratio to perform an `INSERT`. Must be a
floating point value between 0 and 1\. Note that this setting:

- takes into account the `keep_free_space_bytes` setting.
- does not take into account the amount of data that will be written by the
`INSERT` operation.
- is only checked if a positive (non\-zero) ratio is specified

Possible values:

- Float, 0\.0 \- 1\.0

Note that if both `min_free_disk_ratio_to_perform_insert` and
`min_free_disk_bytes_to_perform_insert` are specified, ClickHouse will count
on the value that will allow to perform inserts on a bigger amount of free
memory.

## min\_index\_granularity\_bytes[ŌĆŗ](#min_index_granularity_bytes "Direct link to min_index_granularity_bytes")

Min allowed size of data granules in bytes.

To provide a safeguard against accidentally creating tables with very low
`index_granularity_bytes`.

## min\_level\_for\_full\_part\_storage[ŌĆŗ](#min_level_for_full_part_storage "Direct link to min_level_for_full_part_storage")

Only available in ClickHouse Cloud. Minimal part level to
use full type of storage for data part instead of packed

## min\_level\_for\_wide\_part[ŌĆŗ](#min_level_for_wide_part "Direct link to min_level_for_wide_part")

Minimal part level to create a data part in `Wide` format instead of `Compact`.

## min\_marks\_to\_honor\_max\_concurrent\_queries[ŌĆŗ](#min_marks_to_honor_max_concurrent_queries "Direct link to min_marks_to_honor_max_concurrent_queries")

The minimal number of marks read by the query for applying the [max\_concurrent\_queries](#max_concurrent_queries)
setting.

NoteQueries will still be limited by other `max_concurrent_queries` settings.

Possible values:

- Positive integer.
- `0` ŌĆö Disabled (`max_concurrent_queries` limit applied to no queries).

**Example**

```
<min_marks_to_honor_max_concurrent_queries>10</min_marks_to_honor_max_concurrent_queries>

```

## min\_merge\_bytes\_to\_use\_direct\_io[ŌĆŗ](#min_merge_bytes_to_use_direct_io "Direct link to min_merge_bytes_to_use_direct_io")

The minimum data volume for merge operation that is required for using direct
I/O access to the storage disk. When merging data parts, ClickHouse calculates
the total storage volume of all the data to be merged. If the volume exceeds
`min_merge_bytes_to_use_direct_io` bytes, ClickHouse reads and writes the
data to the storage disk using the direct I/O interface (`O_DIRECT` option).
If `min_merge_bytes_to_use_direct_io = 0`, then direct I/O is disabled.

## min\_parts\_to\_merge\_at\_once[ŌĆŗ](#min_parts_to_merge_at_once "Direct link to min_parts_to_merge_at_once")
