---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 22
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

If the volume exceeds `min_merge_bytes_to_use_direct_io` bytes, ClickHouse reads and writes the data to the storage disk using the direct I/O interface (`O_DIRECT` option). If `min_merge_bytes_to_use_direct_io = 0`, then direct I/O is disabled. ## min\_parts\_to\_merge\_at\_once[​](#min_parts_to_merge_at_once "Direct link to min_parts_to_merge_at_once")

Minimal amount of data parts which merge selector can pick to merge at once
(expert level setting, don't change if you don't understand what it is doing).
0 \- disabled. Works for Simple and StochasticSimple merge selectors.

## min\_relative\_delay\_to\_close[​](#min_relative_delay_to_close "Direct link to min_relative_delay_to_close")

Minimal delay from other replicas to close, stop serving
requests and not return Ok during status check.

## min\_relative\_delay\_to\_measure[​](#min_relative_delay_to_measure "Direct link to min_relative_delay_to_measure")

Calculate relative replica delay only if absolute delay is not less that
this value.

## min\_relative\_delay\_to\_yield\_leadership[​](#min_relative_delay_to_yield_leadership "Direct link to min_relative_delay_to_yield_leadership")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## min\_replicated\_logs\_to\_keep[​](#min_replicated_logs_to_keep "Direct link to min_replicated_logs_to_keep")

Keep about this number of last records in ZooKeeper log, even if they are
obsolete. It doesn't affect work of tables: used only to diagnose ZooKeeper
log before cleaning.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

## min\_rows\_for\_compact\_part[​](#min_rows_for_compact_part "Direct link to min_rows_for_compact_part")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## min\_rows\_for\_full\_part\_storage[​](#min_rows_for_full_part_storage "Direct link to min_rows_for_full_part_storage")

Only available in ClickHouse Cloud. Minimal number of rows to use full type
of storage for data part instead of packed

## min\_rows\_for\_wide\_part[​](#min_rows_for_wide_part "Direct link to min_rows_for_wide_part")

Minimal number of rows to create a data part in `Wide` format instead of `Compact`.

## min\_rows\_to\_fsync\_after\_merge[​](#min_rows_to_fsync_after_merge "Direct link to min_rows_to_fsync_after_merge")

Minimal number of rows to do fsync for part after merge (0 \- disabled)

## mutation\_workload[​](#mutation_workload "Direct link to mutation_workload")

Used to regulate how resources are utilized and shared between mutations and
other workloads. Specified value is used as `workload` setting value for
background mutations of this table. If not specified (empty string), then
server setting `mutation_workload` is used instead.

**See Also**

- [Workload Scheduling](/docs/operations/workload-scheduling)

## non\_replicated\_deduplication\_window[​](#non_replicated_deduplication_window "Direct link to non_replicated_deduplication_window")

The number of the most recently inserted blocks in the non\-replicated
[MergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree) table
for which hash sums are stored to check for duplicates.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.
- `0` (disable deduplication).

A deduplication mechanism is used, similar to replicated tables (see
[replicated\_deduplication\_window](#replicated_deduplication_window) setting).
The hash sums of the created parts are written to a local file on a disk.

## notify\_newest\_block\_number[​](#notify_newest_block_number "Direct link to notify_newest_block_number")

Experimental feature. [Learn more.](/docs/beta-and-experimental-features#experimental-features)
