---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 25
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

a new part, ClickHouse marks the original parts as inactive and deletes them only after `old_parts_lifetime` seconds. Inactive parts are removed if they are not used by current queries, i.e. if the `refcount` of the part is 1\.

`fsync` is not called for new parts, so for some time new parts exist only
in the server's RAM (OS cache). If the server is rebooted spontaneously, new
parts can be lost or damaged. To protect data inactive parts are not deleted
immediately.

During startup ClickHouse checks the integrity of the parts. If the merged
part is damaged ClickHouse returns the inactive parts to the active list,
and later merges them again. Then the damaged part is renamed (the `broken_`
prefix is added) and moved to the `detached` folder. If the merged part is
not damaged, then the original inactive parts are renamed (the `ignored_`
prefix is added) and moved to the `detached` folder.

The default `dirty_expire_centisecs` value (a Linux kernel setting) is 30
seconds (the maximum time that written data is stored only in RAM), but under
heavy loads on the disk system data can be written much later. Experimentally,
a value of 480 seconds was chosen for `old_parts_lifetime`, during which a
new part is guaranteed to be written to disk.

## optimize\_row\_order[​](#optimize_row_order "Direct link to optimize_row_order")

Controls if the row order should be optimized during inserts to improve the
compressability of the newly inserted table part.

Only has an effect for ordinary MergeTree\-engine tables. Does nothing for
specialized MergeTree engine tables (e.g. CollapsingMergeTree).

MergeTree tables are (optionally) compressed using [compression codecs](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/table#column_compression_codec).
Generic compression codecs such as LZ4 and ZSTD achieve maximum compression
rates if the data exposes patterns. Long runs of the same value typically
compress very well.

If this setting is enabled, ClickHouse attempts to store the data in newly
inserted parts in a row order that minimizes the number of equal\-value runs
across the columns of the new table part.
In other words, a small number of equal\-value runs mean that individual runs
are long and compress well.

Finding the optimal row order is computationally infeasible (NP hard).
Therefore, ClickHouse uses a heuristics to quickly find a row order which
still improves compression rates over the original row order.
