---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 26
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

individual runs are long and compress well. Finding the optimal row order is computationally infeasible (NP hard). Therefore, ClickHouse uses a heuristics to quickly find a row order which still improves compression rates over the original row order.

Heuristics for finding a row orderIt is generally possible to shuffle the rows of a table (or table part)
freely as SQL considers the same table (table part) in different row order
equivalent.This freedom of shuffling rows is restricted when a primary key is defined
for the table. In ClickHouse, a primary key `C1, C2, ..., CN` enforces that
the table rows are sorted by columns `C1`, `C2`, ... `Cn` ([clustered index](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_index#Clustered)).
As a result, rows can only be shuffled within "equivalence classes" of row,
i.e. rows which have the same values in their primary key columns.
The intuition is that primary keys with high\-cardinality, e.g. primary keys
involving a `DateTime64` timestamp column, lead to many small equivalence
classes. Likewise, tables with a low\-cardinality primary key, create few and
large equivalence classes. A table with no primary key represents the extreme
case of a single equivalence class which spans all rows.The fewer and the larger the equivalence classes are, the higher the degree
of freedom when re\-shuffling rows.The heuristics applied to find the best row order within each equivalence
class is suggested by D. Lemire, O. Kaser in
[Reordering columns for smaller indexes](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ins.2011.02.002)
and based on sorting the rows within each equivalence class by ascending
cardinality of the non\-primary key columns.It performs three steps:1. Find all equivalence classes based on the row values in primary key columns.
2. For each equivalence class, calculate (usually estimate) the cardinalities
of the non\-primary\-key columns.
3. For each equivalence class, sort the rows in order of ascending
non\-primary\-key column cardinality.

If enabled, insert operations incur additional CPU costs to analyze and
optimize the row order of the new data. INSERTs are expected to take 30\-50%
longer depending on the data characteristics.
Compression rates of LZ4 or ZSTD improve on average by 20\-40%.

This setting works best for tables with no primary key or a low\-cardinality
primary key, i.e. a table with only few distinct primary key values.
High\-cardinality primary keys, e.g. involving timestamp columns of type
`DateTime64`, are not expected to benefit from this setting.
