---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 28
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

creation is greater than `prefer_fetch_merged_part_time_threshold`, then prefer fetching merged part from a replica instead of doing merge locally. This is to speed up very long merges. Possible values: - Any positive integer. ## prefer\_fetch\_merged\_part\_time\_threshold[​](#prefer_fetch_merged_part_time_threshold "Direct link to prefer_fetch_merged_part_time_threshold")

If the time passed since a replication log (ClickHouse Keeper or ZooKeeper)
entry creation exceeds this threshold, and the sum of the size of parts is
greater than `prefer_fetch_merged_part_size_threshold`, then prefer fetching
merged part from a replica instead of doing merge locally. This is to speed
up very long merges.

Possible values:

- Any positive integer.

## prewarm\_mark\_cache[​](#prewarm_mark_cache "Direct link to prewarm_mark_cache")

If true mark cache will be
prewarmed by saving marks to mark cache on inserts, merges, fetches and on
startup of server

## prewarm\_primary\_key\_cache[​](#prewarm_primary_key_cache "Direct link to prewarm_primary_key_cache")

If true primary index
cache will be prewarmed by saving marks to mark cache on inserts, merges,
fetches and on startup of server

## primary\_key\_compress\_block\_size[​](#primary_key_compress_block_size "Direct link to primary_key_compress_block_size")

Primary compress block size, the actual size of the block to compress.

## primary\_key\_compression\_codec[​](#primary_key_compression_codec "Direct link to primary_key_compression_codec")

Compression encoding used by primary, primary key is small enough and cached,
so the default compression is ZSTD(3\).

## primary\_key\_lazy\_load[​](#primary_key_lazy_load "Direct link to primary_key_lazy_load")

Load primary key in memory on
first use instead of on table initialization. This can save memory in the
presence of a large number of tables.

## primary\_key\_ratio\_of\_unique\_prefix\_values\_to\_skip\_suffix\_columns[​](#primary_key_ratio_of_unique_prefix_values_to_skip_suffix_columns "Direct link to primary_key_ratio_of_unique_prefix_values_to_skip_suffix_columns")

If the value of a column of the primary key in data part changes at least in
this ratio of times, skip loading next columns in memory. This allows to save
memory usage by not loading useless columns of the primary key.

## propagate\_types\_serialization\_versions\_to\_nested\_types[​](#propagate_types_serialization_versions_to_nested_types "Direct link to propagate_types_serialization_versions_to_nested_types")

If true, serialization versions like string\_serialization\_version will be propagated inside nested types like Array/Map/Nullable/JSON/etc. If disabled, the serialization version will take affect only to top\-level columns of this type and Tuple el

## ratio\_of\_defaults\_for\_sparse\_serialization[​](#ratio_of_defaults_for_sparse_serialization "Direct link to ratio_of_defaults_for_sparse_serialization")

Minimal ratio of the number of *default* values to the number of *all* values
in a column. Setting this value causes the column to be stored using sparse
serializations.
