---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings.md)#
topic: mergetree-tables-settings-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '10.1016'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 40
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

"Direct link to vertical_merge_algorithm_min_rows_to_activate") Minimal (approximate) sum of rows in merging parts to activate Vertical merge algorithm. ## vertical\_merge\_optimize\_lightweight\_delete[​](#vertical_merge_optimize_lightweight_delete "Direct link to vertical_merge_optimize_lightweight_delete") If true, lightweight delete is optimized on vertical merge. ## vertical\_merge\_optimize\_ttl\_delete[​](#vertical_merge_optimize_ttl_delete "Direct link to vertical_merge_optimize_ttl_delete")

If true, rows TTL delete is optimized on vertical merge. Instead of forcing horizontal merge,
the TTL filter is evaluated and passed to the merging algorithm which sets skip flags in row sources.

## vertical\_merge\_remote\_filesystem\_prefetch[​](#vertical_merge_remote_filesystem_prefetch "Direct link to vertical_merge_remote_filesystem_prefetch")

If true prefetching of data from remote filesystem is used for the next
column during merge

## wait\_for\_unique\_parts\_send\_before\_shutdown\_ms[​](#wait_for_unique_parts_send_before_shutdown_ms "Direct link to wait_for_unique_parts_send_before_shutdown_ms")

Before shutdown table will wait for required amount time for unique parts
(exist only on current replica) to be fetched by other replicas (0 means
disabled).

## write\_ahead\_log\_bytes\_to\_fsync[​](#write_ahead_log_bytes_to_fsync "Direct link to write_ahead_log_bytes_to_fsync")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## write\_ahead\_log\_interval\_ms\_to\_fsync[​](#write_ahead_log_interval_ms_to_fsync "Direct link to write_ahead_log_interval_ms_to_fsync")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## write\_ahead\_log\_max\_bytes[​](#write_ahead_log_max_bytes "Direct link to write_ahead_log_max_bytes")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## write\_final\_mark[​](#write_final_mark "Direct link to write_final_mark")

Obsolete setting, does nothing.

## write\_marks\_for\_substreams\_in\_compact\_parts[​](#write_marks_for_substreams_in_compact_parts "Direct link to write_marks_for_substreams_in_compact_parts")

Enables writing marks per each substream instead of per each column in Compact parts.
It allows to read individual subcolumns from the data part efficiently.

For example, column `t Tuple(a String, b UInt32, c Array(Nullable(UInt32)))` is serialized in the next substreams:

- `t.a` for String data of tuple element `a`
- `t.b` for UInt32 data of tuple element `b`
- `t.c.size0` for array sizes of tuple element `c`
- `t.c.null` for null map of nested array elements of tuple element `c`
- `t.c` for UInt32 data pf nested array elements of tuple element `c`

When this setting is enabled, we will write a mark for each of these 5 substreams, which means that we will be able to read
the data of each individual substream from the granule separately if needed. For example, if we want to read the subcolumn `t.c` we will read only data of
substreams `t.c.size0`, `t.c.null` and `t.c` and won't read data from substreams `t.a` and `t.b`. When this setting is disabled,
we will write a mark only for top\-level column `t`, which means that we will always read the whole column data from the granule, even if we need only data of some substreams.

## zero\_copy\_concurrent\_part\_removal\_max\_postpone\_ratio[​](#zero_copy_concurrent_part_removal_max_postpone_ratio "Direct link to zero_copy_concurrent_part_removal_max_postpone_ratio")
