---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/how-to-choose-a-database-for-real-time-analytics-in-2026
topic: the-unbundling-of-the-cloud-data-warehouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

your applications \- 99\.999% uptime means only 5 minutes of downtime per year! As a result, whole new industries have emerged, whose needs cannot be solved by a traditional data warehouse and instead require a real\-time data warehouse.

- **Marketing analytics** provide visibility into marketing campaigns from many channels \- web, social, ad activity, summarize this information, allow marketers to run interactive queries and reports, and proactively surface outliers in the sea of data \- e.g. fast\-growing regions, sub\-markets, or sectors, and suggest ways to optimize marketing spend.
- **Sales analytics** show activity in the sales region, such as lead flow by source, usage of the product in free / trial use, sales cycle activity, post\-sale consumption, account health, and churn, summarize this data, and proactively raise important opportunity or risk factors for the sales professionals to act on \- key prospects and at\-risk customers.
- **E\-commerce and retail analytics** cover the retail life cycle \- from merchandising and stocking, to sale activity, to fulfillment, enable over time tracking and interactive querying of this data, and proactively suggest ways to optimize logistics of the operation.
- **Financial analytics** track financial instrument activity such as buy, sell, put, call, and allow analysts to quickly pivot on this information based on multiple selection criteria, and suggested actions, including potential future trades and hedges.
- **Observability and IoT monitoring** ingest structured logs, metrics, and tracing events from SaaS infrastructure or manufacturing floor and devices, cross reference it with metadata like device and user information, and summarize error and latency information overtime, as well as forecasted areas of trouble based on historical data.

Furthermore, many datasets driving the core of a SaaS business will also be used by internal stakeholders to understand their business. Thus, both external and internal users are important to consider.

## Internal users are increasingly demanding [\#](/blog/the-unbundling-of-the-cloud-data-warehouse#internal-users-are-increasingly-demanding)

Internal users of analytical applications include product, marketing, and business analysts, who have been the primary audience targeted by data warehousing systems. However, these users are no longer willing to settle for a slow time\-to\-insights experience. To stay competitive in their roles, they need to make data\-driven decisions faster, and if internal data platforms do not meet their requirements, they will advocate for adopting a 3rd party tool with fast, interactive performance.
