---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/how-to-choose-a-database-for-real-time-analytics-in-2026
topic: the-unbundling-of-the-cloud-data-warehouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

concurrency rates - Achieve query latency sufficient for immersive applications (ideally sub\-second) - Operate on up to terabytes and petabytes of historical data while processing millions of events per second ingest Instead, with cloud data warehouses, users face:

- **Data propagation delay.** Internal data engineering teams struggle to serve these increasingly demanding audiences from traditional data warehouses as a result of multi\-hour delays caused by data propagation through complex ETL pipelines, reliance on highly\-denormalized datasets that demand expensive JOINs and slow down real\-time applications, and the sheer financial cost of supporting real\-time query performance in the legacy architectures.
- **Slow query performance.** Users get query performance with response times measured in tens of seconds or even minutes, instead of milliseconds, and when they try to improve it by throwing more compute at the problem, they run into the next concern – cost.
- **Skyrocketing costs.** It is not uncommon for users of cloud data warehouses to pay 3\-5x compared to alternatives, even for sub\-par performance, because their pricing is expensive and their architecture requires more system resources for the same workloads.
- **Low query concurrency.** Query concurrency requirements are much higher than a traditional data warehouse expects – hundreds and thousands of concurrent users running queries with interactivity and latency expectations of millisecond responses, and at disruptively lower costs.

> In the end, cloud data warehouses can only serve low\-latency, interactive workloads by overcompensating in terms of cost. It is like paying exorbitant amounts of money to continuously modify an old car to race in Formula 1, when the correct and cheaper answer is to use an actual F1 car.

In the end, cloud data warehouses can only serve low\-latency, interactive workloads by overcompensating in terms of cost \- either by paying a lot more for premium features like materialized views in Snowflake, or throwing more and more compute to churn through queries faster in BigQuery. It is like paying exorbitant amounts of money to continuously modify an old car to race in Formula 1, when the correct and cheaper answer is to use an actual F1 car.

## Introducing the real\-time data warehouse [\#](/blog/the-unbundling-of-the-cloud-data-warehouse#introducing-the-real-time-data-warehouse)

A real\-time data warehouse is a convergent data platform optimized for running data\-intensive interactive applications serving both internal and external audiences.
