---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/how-to-choose-a-database-for-real-time-analytics-in-2026
topic: the-unbundling-of-the-cloud-data-warehouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

powering customer\-facing applications. One of its super\-powers leveraged by many users are materialized views, which allow for really flexible in\-place data transformation and drastic query speed\-up. ClickHouse easily achieves millisecond\-level analytical performance on top of billions of rows.

When it comes to internally\-facing applications, ClickHouse is increasingly used as an alternative to traditional data warehouses, like Snowflake, Redshift, and BigQuery, because of its broad ecosystem of integrations that make it easy to move data from object stores to ClickHouse as well as run queries from ClickHouse as a query engine directly on top of data stored in object stores in Parquet and many other formats and optionally managed by Iceberg, Delta Lake, and Hudi.

ClickHouse is emerging as a data platform for building the next generation of Gen AI (generative artificial intelligence) applications. With ClickHouse, developers can store training data and vector embeddings in addition to their application data and events, all in a single database, combining AI\-based and heuristics\-based analytics in one data store.

ClickHouse Cloud expands on these fundamentals. It gives users and administrators a turnkey way to deploy ClickHouse with separation of storage and compute — an architecture that has many benefits including virtually limitless storage and effortless horizontal scaling of compute. In ClickHouse Cloud, this architecture has been optimized to run real\-time workloads with low\-level optimizations leveraging object store parallelism, sophisticated caching, and prefetching techniques. ClickHouse Cloud comes with built\-in tooling for administrators (cluster management, observability, backups) as well as analysts (SQL console, BI tool integration, AI\-assisted SQL queries).

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/the-unbundling-of-the-cloud-data-warehouse#conclusion)

The cloud data warehouses accomplished what many considered impossible: shifting huge analytical workloads from proprietary mainframe\-like self\-managed solutions to the cloud. This evolution ultimately resulted in a close examination of how warehoused data could be used to build increasingly interactive data\-driven applications and led to an increasing trend to unbundle the cloud data warehouse, now deployed in a more open and interconnected environment.
