---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/videos/monitoring-clickhouse-using-opentelemetry
topic: ibm-instana-s-solution-for-monitoring-clickhouse-performance
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

even more value for monitoring teams. Ultimately, this design would allow Instana to monitor ClickHouse, minimize the impact on system performance, and address the needs of both their internal team and customers. ## From concept to reality [\#](/blog/ibm-instance-monitoring-clickhouse-performance#from-concept-to-reality)

With their goals laid out, the Instana team got to work integrating the custom span exporter into their architecture. One of the benefits of building in a mature ecosystem, Josh says, is the availability of existing tools like the Instana agent, a lightweight monitoring tool capable of automatic discovery. When deployed, the agent identified running ClickHouse instances, fetched the necessary sensors, and began collecting data, all without requiring manual setup.

> "We got all this for free, which was nice," Joshua says.

The exporter itself uses a [sliding window](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/window-functions) approach to query ClickHouse's `opentelemetry_span` table at regular intervals. This method ensures that no data is missed while keeping the system efficient. Preprocessing tasks, like filtering and formatting spans, are handled before data reaches Instana's backend, reducing the computational load on downstream systems. Once processed, the spans are stitched together in the backend and visualized to give Instana actionable insights into ClickHouse's performance.

## A better system for everyone [\#](/blog/ibm-instance-monitoring-clickhouse-performance#a-better-system-for-everyone)

The addition of the custom span exporter has changed how Instana's teams monitor and optimize ClickHouse. Internal users can trace ClickHouse's performance with newfound clarity, identifying bottlenecks and improving query execution. For customers, better monitoring capabilities mean faster issue resolution and more reliable system performance.

But the benefits go beyond just troubleshooting. The integration has deepened Instana's understanding of how ClickHouse fits into broader distributed systems. By visualizing how ClickHouse interacts with other components, teams can fine\-tune the database while optimizing the entire platform to better serve internal and external stakeholders.

"The custom span exporter helps us make the whole system more reliable, bringing us one step closer to our mission of providing real\-time observability for everyone," Joshua says.

## Pushing the boundaries of observability [\#](/blog/ibm-instance-monitoring-clickhouse-performance#pushing-the-boundaries-of-observability)
