---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/chdb-io/chdb
topic: welcome-chdb
ch_version_introduced: '562323.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

but don’t require the horsepower of a server. With Python, often the language of choice for these tasks, chDB provides a first\-class integration and allows users to exploit ClickHouse from within their code. ## Why Embed ClickHouse? [\#](/blog/welcome-chdb-to-clickhouse#why-embed-clickhouse)

For some time, ClickHouse has provided clickhouse\-local. This offers a single locally executable binary from which users can query local and remote files (e.g., in S3\) with the full functionality of ClickHouse. Providing both a full client console and a means of passing queries and responses through stdout for integration into scripts, clickhouse\-local addresses the common ad hoc data tasks described above and avoids the need for users to deploy a full server. We continue to invest in clickhouse\-local, which benefits from the same core code as the server, with it particularly benefiting recent improvements such as faster Parquet querying.

While clickhouse\-local has proved immensely popular and especially powerful when a simple SQL query is sufficient, we also understand that Python is ubiquitous and often the tool of choice for data tasks. For example, users often need to integrate SQL into their wider logic \- especially with Python as the most popular means of training and invoking Machine Learning models. chDB addresses this very problem, allowing users to use ClickHouse with standard data manipulation and analysis libraries such as Pandas.

One of the first things which caught our attention is how chDB had addressed the challenge of providing ClickHouse as a Python module: the ***how*** was just as important to us as the ***why***. A naive implementation might directly include the clickhouse\-local binary in the Python package and pass queries and responses through stdin and stdout via something like `popen`. This piped approach, while maybe simple and sufficient for a one\-off script, has several disadvantages, such as:

1. Starting an independent process for each query would slightly impact performance, adding around 10\..50 milliseconds for the query time.
2. Multiple copies of SQL query results are inevitable.
3. Integration with Python is limited, making it difficult to implement Python UDFs and support SQL on Pandas DataFrame.

Most important to the team, it lacked elegance ????
