---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: announcing-a-new-official-clickhouse-kafka-connector
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

when each might be appropriate. ### Delivery semantics [\#](/blog/kafka-connect-connector-clickhouse-with-exactly-once#delivery-semantics) Apache Kafka supports three message delivery semantics, listed here in ascending order of implementation complexity: - **At\-most\-once**: A message is delivered either one time only or not at all.

This scenario favors performance and throughput over data consistency by keeping the messaging overhead minimal. It can be suitable for large deployments of log and metrics collection, for example, in the IoT space. In that case, some conclusions can still be drawn from statistically significant observations, even if some events are missing.
- **At\-least\-once**: A message can be delivered one or more times, with the guarantee that it will never be lost. This approach represents an interesting middle ground where the tolerance for duplicates reduces the operational complexity. The data store will then need to compensate on the query layer or by providing deduplication capabilities to ensure duplicates are not compromising business conclusions. This is by far the most common approach across many use cases like Observability.
- **Exactly\-once**: A message will always be delivered only once. This approach is key for business\-critical applications like financial analytics, where accuracy cannot be compromised and the receiving system cannot deduplicate. It comes with a significant operational overhead due to the necessity of keeping track of many moving components in order to be able to restore ingestion from partial states.

### The ClickHouse \- Kafka Landscape [\#](/blog/kafka-connect-connector-clickhouse-with-exactly-once#the-clickhouse---kafka-landscape)

ClickHouse has supported a [number of techniques](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/kafka#choosing-an-approach) to achieve ingestion from Kafka, each with its own respective pros and cons.
