---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: announcing-a-new-official-clickhouse-kafka-connector
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

it has distinct advantages over Zookeeper, mainly compressed logs, lightweight installation, a smaller memory consumption (no JVM), and even optionally linearizability of reads. These properties are ideal for persisting small data quantities when highly consistent storage is required.

Our proposed connector design requires the connector to store state in a strongly consistent store with sequential consistency and linearizable writes. Initially, we considered ClickHouse but discounted this quickly for several reasons. Firstly, ClickHouse is not strongly consistent by default and offers only eventual consistent replication. With careful configuration, however, you can ensure [linearizable inserts](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/#settings-insert_quorum) and [sequential consistency for SELECTS](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings/#settings-select_sequential_consistency) for a [replicated table](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replication#table_engines-replication). However, this ClickHouse configuration adds significant insert latency, principally because of the increased communication with ClickHouse Keeper to coordinate the write and subsequent data replication. This design effectively adds a redundant component and unnecessary overhead \- the ClickHouse table storage. Given we only need to store minimal state, using ClickHouse Keeper directly seemed the perfect solution to address these requirements.

The challenge with this approach is that this component is typically not exposed in a cluster. For example, it's not exposed in ClickHouse Cloud, and its access and use should be carefully controlled not to impact cluster operations and stability. Working with the ClickHouse core team, we decided to expose ClickHouse Keeper (for cases where linearizable inserts and sequential consistency are required) in a controlled way through a table engine \- the [KeeperMap engine](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/39976). This provides us with an integrated and lightweight means of storing our state.

Note that you can test the connector without KeeperMap using an in\-memory mode. This is for testing only and makes no exactly\-once guarantees in the event of failure.

## What’s Next? [\#](/blog/kafka-connect-connector-clickhouse-with-exactly-once#whats-next)

Over the coming months, we plan to test the connector extensively under various failure scenarios. Once we have confidence in the design and implementation and gathered feedback from you, our users, the connector will be made generally available.
