---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/index.md)#
topic: select-query-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '19.14'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

instead of an expression. When the query is analyzed, the asterisk is expanded to a list of all table columns (excluding the `MATERIALIZED` and `ALIAS` columns). There are only a few cases when using an asterisk is justified:

- When creating a table dump.
- For tables containing just a few columns, such as system tables.
- For getting information about what columns are in a table. In this case, set `LIMIT 1`. But it is better to use the `DESC TABLE` query.
- When there is strong filtration on a small number of columns using `PREWHERE`.
- In subqueries (since columns that aren't needed for the external query are excluded from subqueries).

In all other cases, we do not recommend using the asterisk, since it only gives you the drawbacks of a columnar DBMS instead of the advantages. In other words using the asterisk is not recommended.

### Extreme Values[​](#extreme-values "Direct link to Extreme Values")

In addition to results, you can also get minimum and maximum values for the results columns. To do this, set the **extremes** setting to 1\. Minimums and maximums are calculated for numeric types, dates, and dates with times. For other columns, the default values are output.

An extra two rows are calculated – the minimums and maximums, respectively. These extra two rows are output in `XML`, `JSON*`, `TabSeparated*`, `CSV*`, `Vertical`, `Template` and `Pretty*` [formats](/docs/interfaces/formats), separate from the other rows. They are not output for other formats.

In `JSON*` and `XML` formats, the extreme values are output in a separate 'extremes' field. In `TabSeparated*`, `CSV*` and `Vertical` formats, the row comes after the main result, and after 'totals' if present. It is preceded by an empty row (after the other data). In `Pretty*` formats, the row is output as a separate table after the main result, and after `totals` if present. In `Template` format the extreme values are output according to specified template.

Extreme values are calculated for rows before `LIMIT`, but after `LIMIT BY`. However, when using `LIMIT offset, size`, the rows before `offset` are included in `extremes`. In stream requests, the result may also include a small number of rows that passed through `LIMIT`.

### Notes[​](#notes "Direct link to Notes")

You can use synonyms (`AS` aliases) in any part of a query.
