---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/table.md)#
topic: create-table-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '4.46'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

example, `INT NULL` is the same as `Nullable(INT)`. If the type is `Nullable` and `NULL` or `NOT NULL` modifiers are specified, the exception will be thrown. See also [data\_type\_default\_nullable](/docs/operations/settings/settings#data_type_default_nullable) setting. ## Default Values[​](#default_values "Direct link to Default Values")

The column description can specify a default value expression in the form of `DEFAULT expr`, `MATERIALIZED expr`, or `ALIAS expr`. Example: `URLDomain String DEFAULT domain(URL)`.

The expression `expr` is optional. If it is omitted, the column type must be specified explicitly and the default value will be `0` for numeric columns, `''` (the empty string) for string columns, `[]` (the empty array) for array columns, `1970-01-01` for date columns, or `NULL` for nullable columns.

The column type of a default value column can be omitted in which case it is inferred from `expr`'s type. For example the type of column `EventDate DEFAULT toDate(EventTime)` will be date.

If both a data type and a default value expression are specified, an implicit type casting function inserted which converts the expression to the specified type. Example: `Hits UInt32 DEFAULT 0` is internally represented as `Hits UInt32 DEFAULT toUInt32(0)`.

A default value expression `expr` may reference arbitrary table columns and constants. ClickHouse checks that changes of the table structure do not introduce loops in the expression calculation. For INSERT, it checks that expressions are resolvable – that all columns they can be calculated from have been passed.

### DEFAULT[​](#default "Direct link to DEFAULT")

`DEFAULT expr`

Normal default value. If the value of such a column is not specified in an INSERT query, it is computed from `expr`.

Example:

```
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE test
(
    id UInt64,
    updated_at DateTime DEFAULT now(),
    updated_at_date Date DEFAULT toDate(updated_at)
)
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY id;

INSERT INTO test (id) VALUES (1);

SELECT * FROM test;
┌─id─┬──────────updated_at─┬─updated_at_date─┐
│  1 │ 2023-02-24 17:06:46 │      2023-02-24 │
└────┴─────────────────────┴─────────────────┘

```

### MATERIALIZED[​](#materialized "Direct link to MATERIALIZED")

`MATERIALIZED expr`

Materialized expression. Values of such columns are automatically calculated according to the specified materialized expression when rows are inserted. Values cannot be explicitly specified during `INSERT`s.
