---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/table.md)#
topic: create-table-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '4.46'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

could be defined: ### CONSTRAINT[​](#constraint "Direct link to CONSTRAINT") ``` CREATE TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] [db.]table_name [ON CLUSTER cluster] ( name1 [type1] [DEFAULT|MATERIALIZED|ALIAS expr1] [compression_codec] [TTL expr1], ... CONSTRAINT constraint_name_1 CHECK boolean_expr_1, ... ) ENGINE = engine ```

`boolean_expr_1` could by any boolean expression. If constraints are defined for the table, each of them will be checked for every row in `INSERT` query. If any constraint is not satisfied — server will raise an exception with constraint name and checking expression.

Adding large amount of constraints can negatively affect performance of big `INSERT` queries.

### ASSUME[​](#assume "Direct link to ASSUME")

The `ASSUME` clause is used to define a `CONSTRAINT` on a table that is assumed to be true. This constraint can then be used by the optimizer to enhance the performance of SQL queries.

Take this example where `ASSUME CONSTRAINT` is used in the creation of the `users_a` table:

```
CREATE TABLE users_a (
    uid Int16, 
    name String, 
    age Int16, 
    name_len UInt8 MATERIALIZED length(name), 
    CONSTRAINT c1 ASSUME length(name) = name_len
) 
ENGINE=MergeTree 
ORDER BY (name_len, name);

```

Here, `ASSUME CONSTRAINT` is used to assert that the `length(name)` function always equals the value of the `name_len` column. This means that whenever `length(name)` is called in a query, ClickHouse can replace it with `name_len`, which should be faster because it avoids calling the `length()` function.

Then, when executing the query `SELECT name FROM users_a WHERE length(name) < 5;`, ClickHouse can optimize it to `SELECT name FROM users_a WHERE name_len < 5`; because of the `ASSUME CONSTRAINT`. This can make the query run faster because it avoids calculating the length of `name` for each row.

`ASSUME CONSTRAINT` **does not enforce the constraint**, it merely informs the optimizer that the constraint holds true. If the constraint is not actually true, the results of the queries may be incorrect. Therefore, you should only use `ASSUME CONSTRAINT` if you are sure that the constraint is true.

## TTL Expression[​](#ttl-expression "Direct link to TTL Expression")

Defines storage time for values. Can be specified only for MergeTree\-family tables. For the detailed description, see [TTL for columns and tables](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#table_engine-mergetree-ttl).

## Column Compression Codecs[​](#column_compression_codec "Direct link to Column Compression Codecs")

By default, ClickHouse applies `lz4` compression in the self\-managed version, and `zstd` in ClickHouse Cloud.
