---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/table.md)#
topic: create-table-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '4.46'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

for MergeTree\-family tables. For the detailed description, see [TTL for columns and tables](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#table_engine-mergetree-ttl). ## Column Compression Codecs[​](#column_compression_codec "Direct link to Column Compression Codecs") By default, ClickHouse applies `lz4` compression in the self\-managed version, and `zstd` in ClickHouse Cloud.

For `MergeTree`\-engine family you can change the default compression method in the [compression](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#compression) section of a server configuration.

You can also define the compression method for each individual column in the `CREATE TABLE` query.

```
CREATE TABLE codec_example
(
    dt Date CODEC(ZSTD),
    ts DateTime CODEC(LZ4HC),
    float_value Float32 CODEC(NONE),
    double_value Float64 CODEC(LZ4HC(9)),
    value Float32 CODEC(Delta, ZSTD)
)
ENGINE = <Engine>
...

```

The `Default` codec can be specified to reference default compression which may depend on different settings (and properties of data) in runtime.
Example: `value UInt64 CODEC(Default)` — the same as lack of codec specification.

Also you can remove current CODEC from the column and use default compression from config.xml:

```
ALTER TABLE codec_example MODIFY COLUMN float_value CODEC(Default);

```

Codecs can be combined in a pipeline, for example, `CODEC(Delta, Default)`.

TipYou can't decompress ClickHouse database files with external utilities like `lz4`. Instead, use the special [clickhouse\-compressor](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/programs/compressor) utility.

Compression is supported for the following table engines:

- [MergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree) family. Supports column compression codecs and selecting the default compression method by [compression](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#compression) settings.
- [Log](/docs/engines/table-engines/log-family) family. Uses the `lz4` compression method by default and supports column compression codecs.
- [Set](/docs/engines/table-engines/special/set). Only supported the default compression.
- [Join](/docs/engines/table-engines/special/join). Only supported the default compression.

ClickHouse supports general purpose codecs and specialized codecs.

### General Purpose Codecs[​](#general-purpose-codecs "Direct link to General Purpose Codecs")

#### NONE[​](#none "Direct link to NONE")

`NONE` — No compression.

#### LZ4[​](#lz4 "Direct link to LZ4")

`LZ4` — Lossless [data compression algorithm](https://github.com/lz4/lz4) used by default. Applies LZ4 fast compression.

#### LZ4HC[​](#lz4hc "Direct link to LZ4HC")

`LZ4HC[(level)]` — LZ4 HC (high compression) algorithm with configurable level. Default level: 9\. Setting `level <= 0` applies the default level. Possible levels: \[1, 12]. Recommended level range: \[4, 9].

#### ZSTD[​](#zstd "Direct link to ZSTD")

`ZSTD[(level)]` — [ZSTD compression algorithm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Zstandard) with configurable `level`. Possible levels: \[1, 22]. Default level: 1\.

High compression levels are useful for asymmetric scenarios, like compress once, decompress repeatedly. Higher levels mean better compression and higher CPU usage.

#### Obsolete: ZSTD\_QAT[​](#zstd_qat "Direct link to Obsolete: ZSTD_QAT")
