---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/table.md)#
topic: create-table-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '4.46'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

`level`. Possible levels: \[1, 22]. Default level: 1\. High compression levels are useful for asymmetric scenarios, like compress once, decompress repeatedly. Higher levels mean better compression and higher CPU usage. #### Obsolete: ZSTD\_QAT[​](#zstd_qat "Direct link to Obsolete: ZSTD_QAT")

Not supported in ClickHouse Cloud
#### Obsolete: DEFLATE\_QPL[​](#deflate_qpl "Direct link to Obsolete: DEFLATE_QPL")

Not supported in ClickHouse Cloud
### Specialized Codecs[​](#specialized-codecs "Direct link to Specialized Codecs")

These codecs are designed to make compression more effective by exploiting specific features of the data. Some of these codecs do not compress data themselves, they instead preprocess the data such that a second compression stage using a general\-purpose codec can achieve a higher data compression rate.

#### Delta[​](#delta "Direct link to Delta")

`Delta(delta_bytes)` — Compression approach in which raw values are replaced by the difference of two neighboring values, except for the first value that stays unchanged. `delta_bytes` is the maximum size of raw values, the default value is `sizeof(type)`. Specifying `delta_bytes` as an argument is deprecated and support will be removed in a future release. Delta is a data preparation codec, i.e. it cannot be used stand\-alone.

#### DoubleDelta[​](#doubledelta "Direct link to DoubleDelta")

`DoubleDelta(bytes_size)` — Calculates delta of deltas and writes it in compact binary form. The `bytes_size` has a similar meaning than `delta_bytes` in [Delta](#delta) codec. Specifying `bytes_size` as an argument is deprecated and support will be removed in a future release. Optimal compression rates are achieved for monotonic sequences with a constant stride, such as time series data. Can be used with any numeric type. Implements the algorithm used in Gorilla TSDB, extending it to support 64\-bit types. Uses 1 extra bit for 32\-bit deltas: 5\-bit prefixes instead of 4\-bit prefixes. For additional information, see Compressing Time Stamps in [Gorilla: A Fast, Scalable, In\-Memory Time Series Database](http://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol8/p1816-teller.pdf). DoubleDelta is a data preparation codec, i.e. it cannot be used stand\-alone.

#### GCD[​](#gcd "Direct link to GCD")
