---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/table.md)#
topic: create-table-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '4.46'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

encryption key is specified by [encryption](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#encryption) settings. Note that encryption only makes sense at the end of codec pipelines, because encrypted data usually can't be compressed in any meaningful way. Encryption codecs: #### AES\_128\_GCM\_SIV[​](#aes_128_gcm_siv "Direct link to AES_128_GCM_SIV")

`CODEC('AES-128-GCM-SIV')` — Encrypts data with AES\-128 in [RFC 8452](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc8452) GCM\-SIV mode.

#### AES\-256\-GCM\-SIV[​](#aes-256-gcm-siv "Direct link to AES-256-GCM-SIV")

`CODEC('AES-256-GCM-SIV')` — Encrypts data with AES\-256 in GCM\-SIV mode.

These codecs use a fixed nonce and encryption is therefore deterministic. This makes it compatible with deduplicating engines such as [ReplicatedMergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replication) but has a weakness: when the same data block is encrypted twice, the resulting ciphertext will be exactly the same so an adversary who can read the disk can see this equivalence (although only the equivalence, without getting its content).

NoteMost engines including the "\*MergeTree" family create index files on disk without applying codecs. This means plaintext will appear on disk if an encrypted column is indexed.

NoteIf you perform a SELECT query mentioning a specific value in an encrypted column (such as in its WHERE clause), the value may appear in [system.query\_log](/docs/operations/system-tables/query_log). You may want to disable the logging.

**Example**

```
CREATE TABLE mytable
(
    x String CODEC(AES_128_GCM_SIV)
)
ENGINE = MergeTree ORDER BY x;

```

NoteIf compression needs to be applied, it must be explicitly specified. Otherwise, only encryption will be applied to data.

**Example**

```
CREATE TABLE mytable
(
    x String CODEC(Delta, LZ4, AES_128_GCM_SIV)
)
ENGINE = MergeTree ORDER BY x;

```

## Temporary Tables[​](#temporary-tables "Direct link to Temporary Tables")

NotePlease note that temporary tables are not replicated. As a result, there is no guarantee that data inserted into a temporary table will be available in other replicas. The primary use case where temporary tables can be useful is for querying or joining small external datasets during a single session.

ClickHouse supports temporary tables which have the following characteristics:
