---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/table.md)#
topic: create-table-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '4.46'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

table will be available in other replicas. The primary use case where temporary tables can be useful is for querying or joining small external datasets during a single session. ClickHouse supports temporary tables which have the following characteristics:

- Temporary tables disappear when the session ends, including if the connection is lost.
- A temporary table uses the Memory table engine when engine is not specified and it may use any table engine except Replicated and `KeeperMap` engines.
- The DB can't be specified for a temporary table. It is created outside of databases.
- Impossible to create a temporary table with distributed DDL query on all cluster servers (by using `ON CLUSTER`): this table exists only in the current session.
- If a temporary table has the same name as another one and a query specifies the table name without specifying the DB, the temporary table will be used.
- For distributed query processing, temporary tables with Memory engine used in a query are passed to remote servers.

To create a temporary table, use the following syntax:

```
CREATE [OR REPLACE] TEMPORARY TABLE [IF NOT EXISTS] table_name
(
    name1 [type1] [DEFAULT|MATERIALIZED|ALIAS expr1],
    name2 [type2] [DEFAULT|MATERIALIZED|ALIAS expr2],
    ...
) [ENGINE = engine]

```

In most cases, temporary tables are not created manually, but when using external data for a query, or for distributed `(GLOBAL) IN`. For more information, see the appropriate sections

It's possible to use tables with [ENGINE \= Memory](/docs/engines/table-engines/special/memory) instead of temporary tables.

## REPLACE TABLE[​](#replace-table "Direct link to REPLACE TABLE")

The `REPLACE` statement allows you to update a table [atomically](/docs/concepts/glossary#atomicity).

NoteThis statement is supported for the [`Atomic`](/docs/engines/database-engines/atomic) and [`Replicated`](/docs/engines/database-engines/replicated) database engines,
which are the default database engines for ClickHouse and ClickHouse Cloud respectively.

Ordinarily, if you need to delete some data from a table,
you can create a new table and fill it with a `SELECT` statement that does not retrieve unwanted data,
then drop the old table and rename the new one.
This approach is demonstrated in the example below:

```
CREATE TABLE myNewTable AS myOldTable;

INSERT INTO myNewTable
SELECT * FROM myOldTable 
WHERE CounterID <12345;

DROP TABLE myOldTable;

RENAME TABLE myNewTable TO myOldTable;

```

Instead of the approach above, it is also possible to use `REPLACE` (given you are using the default database engines) to achieve the same result:
