---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/row-policy.md)#
topic: create-row-policy-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# CREATE ROW POLICY \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Statements](/docs/sql-reference/statements)- [CREATE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create)- ROW POLICY
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/row-policy.md)# CREATE ROW POLICY

Creates a [row policy](/docs/operations/access-rights#row-policy-management), i.e. a filter used to determine which rows a user can read from a table.

TipRow policies make sense only for users with readonly access. If a user can modify a table or copy partitions between tables, it defeats the restrictions of row policies.

Syntax:

```
CREATE [ROW] POLICY [IF NOT EXISTS | OR REPLACE] policy_name1 [ON CLUSTER cluster_name1] ON [db1.]table1|db1.*
        [, policy_name2 [ON CLUSTER cluster_name2] ON [db2.]table2|db2.* ...]
    [IN access_storage_type]
    [FOR SELECT] USING condition
    [AS {PERMISSIVE | RESTRICTIVE}]
    [TO {role1 [, role2 ...] | ALL | ALL EXCEPT role1 [, role2 ...]}]

```

## USING Clause[​](#using-clause "Direct link to USING Clause")

Allows specifying a condition to filter rows. A user will see a row if the condition is calculated to non\-zero for the row.

## TO Clause[​](#to-clause "Direct link to TO Clause")

In the `TO` section you can provide a list of users and roles this policy should work for. For example, `CREATE ROW POLICY ... TO accountant, john@localhost`.

Keyword `ALL` means all the ClickHouse users, including current user. Keyword `ALL EXCEPT` allows excluding some users from the all users list, for example, `CREATE ROW POLICY ... TO ALL EXCEPT accountant, john@localhost`

## AS Clause[​](#as-clause "Direct link to AS Clause")

It's allowed to have more than one policy enabled on the same table for the same user at one time. So we need a way to combine the conditions from multiple policies.

By default, policies are combined using the boolean `OR` operator. For example, the following policies:

```
CREATE ROW POLICY pol1 ON mydb.table1 USING b=1 TO mira, peter
CREATE ROW POLICY pol2 ON mydb.table1 USING c=2 TO peter, antonio

```

enable the user `peter` to see rows with either `b=1` or `c=2`.

The `AS` clause specifies how policies should be combined with other policies. Policies can be either permissive or restrictive. By default, policies are permissive, which means they are combined using the boolean `OR` operator.

A policy can be defined as restrictive as an alternative. Restrictive policies are combined using the boolean `AND` operator.

Here is the general formula:
