---
source: blog
url: https://www.hhs.gov/hipaa/for-professionals/security/index.html
topic: hipaa-and-pci-compliance-at-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

cardholder data is always safe. ### Get started today Interested in seeing how ClickHouse works on your data? Get started with ClickHouse Cloud in minutes and receive $300 in free credits. [Sign up](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog) ## Performance Meets Protection [\#](/blog/clickhouse-self-service-hipaa-pci-compliance#performance-meets-protection)

ClickHouse empowers our customers to store and process ePHI and payment card data at scale with lightning fast performance. Customers currently enjoying the speed, efficiency and security of our HIPAA services include pioneers in pharma, ground breaking medical research institutions, innovative user engagement services, meticulous client management, cutting\-edge artificial intelligence, and robust security services, all designed to support the healthcare industry. Our PCI customers are the vigilant heroes of fraud detection services, where every millisecond counts! We made the effort to understand the most vital security features our customers need, ensuring the continuous privacy and security of the data they entrust to us. Beyond our already formidable security framework, these specialized environments offer enhanced isolation from other workload types, fortified access controls, and granular auditing, providing complete transparency and control.

We didn’t stop there! We partnered with a trusted advisor in security and compliance to perform an independent audit of our environment, and the results are a source of pride. Our SOC 2 Type II \+ HIPAA and PCI Level 1 Service Provider AOC, a testament to our dedication to excellence and compliance, is readily available for download in our [Trust Center](https://trust.clickhouse.com). We encourage our customers to explore our [security shared responsibility model](https://clickhouse.com/docs/cloud/security/shared-responsibility-model) to handpick security controls tailored to their unique requirements, ensuring a comprehensive security posture.

It is our honor to be your service provider of choice, especially when it comes to the most stringent and non\-negotiable of privacy and security demands. We are here to support your success.

## Empowerment at Your Fingertips [\#](/blog/clickhouse-self-service-hipaa-pci-compliance#empowerment-at-your-fingertips)

ClickHouse customers with **Enterprise** organizations, the path to secure data is now incredibly simple and direct!

HIPAA customers can request a Business Associate Agreement (BAA) directly on your Organization page within the console. Once that’s completed, you can deploy HIPAA services to certified cloud providers and regions with confidence, knowing your healthcare data is in a compliant environment.
