---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://kb.altinity.com/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/
topic: clickhouse-limitations-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

# ClickHouse® limitations \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Schema design](/altinity-kb-schema-design/)
2. ClickHouse limitations
# ClickHouse® limitations

How much is too much?In most of the cases ClickHouse® doesn’t have any hard limits. But obviously there there are some practical limitation / barriers for different things \- often they are caused by some system / network / filesystem limitation.

So after reaching some limits you can get different kind of problems, usually it never a failures / errors, but different kinds of degradations (slower queries / high cpu/memory usage, extra load on the network / zookeeper etc).

While those numbers can vary a lot depending on your hardware \& settings there is some safe ‘Goldilocks’ zone where ClickHouse work the best with default settings \& usual hardware.

### Number of tables (system\-wide, across all databases)

- non\-replicated [MergeTree\-family](https://kb.altinity.com/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/)
tables \= few thousands is still acceptable, if you don’t do realtime inserts in more that few dozens of them. See [\#32259](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/32259)
- ReplicatedXXXMergeTree \= few hundreds is still acceptable, if you don’t do realtime inserts in more that few dozens of them. Every Replicated table comes with it’s own cost (need to do housekeeping operations, monitoring replication queues etc). See [\#31919](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/31919)
- Log family table \= even dozens of thousands is still ok, especially if database engine \= Lazy is used.

### Number of databases

Fewer than number of tables (above). Dozens / hundreds is usually still acceptable.

### Number of inserts per seconds

For usual (non async) inserts \- dozen is enough. Every insert creates a part, if you will create parts too often, ClickHouse will not be able to merge them and you will be getting ’too many parts’.

### Number of columns in the table

Up to a few hundreds. With thousands of columns the inserts / background merges may become slower / require more of RAM.
See for example <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/6943>
<https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/27502>

### ClickHouse instances on a single node / VM

One is enough. Single ClickHouse can use resources of the node very efficiently, and it may require some complicated tuning to run several instances on a single node.

### Number of parts / partitions (system\-wide, across all databases)

More than several dozens thousands may lead to performance degradation: slow starts (see <https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/10087>
).
