---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/best-practices/choosing_a_primary_key.md)#
topic: choosing-a-primary-key-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.055'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

# Choosing a primary key \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Best practices](/docs/best-practices)- Choosing a primary key
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/best-practices/choosing_a_primary_key.md)# Choosing a primary key

> We interchangeably use the term "ordering key" to refer to the "primary key" on this page. Strictly, [these differ in ClickHouse](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#choosing-a-primary-key-that-differs-from-the-sorting-key), but for the purposes of this document, readers can use them interchangeably, with the ordering key referring to the columns specified in the table `ORDER BY`.

Note that a ClickHouse primary key works [very differently](/docs/migrations/postgresql/data-modeling-techniques#primary-ordering-keys-in-clickhouse) to those familiar with similar terms in OLTP databases such as Postgres.

Choosing an effective primary key in ClickHouse is crucial for query performance and storage efficiency. ClickHouse organizes data into parts, each containing its own sparse primary index. This index significantly speeds up queries by reducing the volume of data scanned. Additionally, because the primary key determines the physical order of data on disk, it directly impacts compression efficiency. Optimally ordered data compresses more effectively, which further enhances performance by reducing I/O.

1. When selecting an ordering key, prioritize columns frequently used in query filters (i.e. the `WHERE` clause), especially those that exclude large numbers of rows.
2. Columns highly correlated with other data in the table are also beneficial, as contiguous storage improves compression ratios and memory efficiency during `GROUP BY` and `ORDER BY` operations.

Some simple rules can be applied to help choose an ordering key. The following can sometimes be in conflict, so consider these in order. **You can identify a number of keys from this process, with 4\-5 typically sufficient**:

ImportantOrdering keys must be defined on table creation and can't be added. Additional ordering can be added to a table after (or before) data insertion through a feature known as projections. Be aware these result in data duplication. Further details [here](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/projection).

## Example[​](#example "Direct link to Example")

Consider the following `posts_unordered` table. This contains a row per Stack Overflow post.

This table has no primary key \- as indicated by `ORDER BY tuple()`.
