---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/system-tables/query_log
topic: building-clickhouse-byoc-bring-your-own-cloud-on-aws
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

for troubleshooting [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-byoc-on-aws#access-for-troubleshooting) One of the key differences between BYOC and our managed cloud is that in the BYOC model, our engineers will have limited access to the ClickHouse services, since they are located in the customer’s VPC.

Kubernetes access is needed for troubleshooting issues such as EBS mount failure, and node level network issues. When ClickHouse services in a customer account are experiencing issues, a ClickHouse on\-call engineer may need access to the customer's EKS for troubleshooting.

We began designing with the following goals in mind:

- Access must be approved and audited.
- Access permissions must be separated for each BYOC setup.
- Permissions must be limited and controlled. For example, reading secrets and executing into a pod will not be allowed.

Our solution follows a controlled escalation process:

1. Engineers request access through an internal approval system.
2. A designated approvers group reviews and grants access if necessary.
3. The system temporarily enables access for the approved engineer, which automatically expires after a set time.

Both ClickHouse and customers can audit access activity. ClickHouse monitors access requests and logs, while customers can track activity from ClickHouse engineers within their own systems.

The above process allows support engineers to access EKS clusters, but does not provide access to the ClickHouse instances. For this a separate certificate based mechanism is required.

#### Certificate based auth for system table access [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-byoc-on-aws#certificate-based-auth-for-system-table-access)

In situations where on\-call engineers need to connect to the ClickHouse service for debugging and improving query performance, they will establish a private connection through Tailscale and authenticate using a temporary certificate. This connection will only grant access to system tables, specifically for diagnostic purposes.

The process is as follows:

1. On\-call engineers within the designated Okta group make a request to access the customer ClickHouse instance system table. This also generates a time bound certificate.
2. The ClickHouse operator configures ClickHouse to accept the certificate.
3. On\-call engineers access the instance via Tailscale using the certificate.
