---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/system-tables/query_log
topic: building-clickhouse-byoc-bring-your-own-cloud-on-aws
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

towards resource utilization on each node, ensuring optimal use with no wasted resources. Specifically, this means ensuring replicas are assigned to nodes such that resources are not wasted e.g. assigning a small replica exclusively to a large node.

First, we reduced the overhead of running non\-ClickHouse services (proxy, operator, and monitoring stacks). Because these services are no longer shared among multiple customers, we were able to decrease both the number of replicas and the overall resource allocation.
Next, we tackled the challenge of scheduling ClickHouse server pods. Initially, we created node pools with all instance types in the m7gd family, each with a minimum size of 0, and relied on the Kubernetes default scheduler and the AWS cluster autoscaler to manage them. However, we encountered several challenges with this approach:

- Determining resource allocation for the ClickHouse server was difficult due to DaemonSets (such as Cilium and Observability components) occupying a certain amount of resources. This sometimes caused our pre\-defined resource allocation to fail scheduling on the corresponding node group. The pre\-defined resource allocation shared with our managed cloud is not easily changed.
- During scale\-in operations, the ClickHouse server was not reallocated to a node group with a smaller instance type due to the behavior of the cluster autoscaler, leading to wasted resources.

To solve these issues, we introduced **Custom Profiles**, enabling the customization of resource allocation and configuration (e.g., SSD cache) for different instance types. This approach optimizes performance by ensuring that workloads are scheduled on the most suitable hardware, reducing inefficiencies caused by misallocated resources. Each node group is assigned a corresponding label, and a node selector is used in the ClickHouse server pod during creation or scaling.

Additionally, the web console dynamically displays all available custom profiles and node groups on a specific BYOC setup, allowing users to:

- Custom configure available instance sizes.
- Select different CPU/Memory ratios (e.g., 1 or 1) based on workload needs.
- Optimize ClickHouse deployments for cost efficiency and performance.

This approach ensures customers get maximum value from their AWS resources while maintaining full flexibility over instance types and configurations.

## Easy maintenance [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-byoc-on-aws#easy-maintenance)
