---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/system-tables/query_log
topic: building-clickhouse-byoc-bring-your-own-cloud-on-aws
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

1) based on workload needs. - Optimize ClickHouse deployments for cost efficiency and performance. This approach ensures customers get maximum value from their AWS resources while maintaining full flexibility over instance types and configurations. ## Easy maintenance [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-byoc-on-aws#easy-maintenance)

To simplify Day 2 operations and ongoing maintenance, we aim to provide maximum flexibility and control for our BYOC customers. One critical aspect of this is managing upgrades efficiently to minimize disruptions while ensuring security and performance improvements.

### Scheduled upgrades [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-byoc-on-aws#scheduled-upgrades)

We give BYOC customers full control over upgrades by allowing them to define a [scheduled upgrade time window](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/manage/updates#scheduled-upgrades). Customers can specify a preferred maintenance window to ensure that updates happen at a time that minimizes impact on their workloads.

### Managed Kubernetes upgrade [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-byoc-on-aws#managed-kubernetes-upgrade)

Secondly, EKS serves as a core cloud component and needs long term maintenance such as upgrading versions, and node group updates. Regularly updating your Amazon Elastic Kubernetes Service (EKS) clusters is essential to maintain security, access to new features, and ensure compatibility with the broader Kubernetes ecosystem. Also, operating on a version in extended support results in additional charges.

Using the CSP console to upgrade K8S is one of the choices. However, to achieve greater control over the upgrade process, minimize service interruptions, and ensure scalability across multiple cloud providers, ClickHouse has developed a self\-managed solution called **Kubernetes Upgrader**. This engineered approach provides fine\-grained control over the upgrade workflow, allowing for better coordination, reduced downtime, and seamless operation across different cloud environments.

The upgrade process is designed to **separate the EKS control plane upgrade from the Node Group upgrade**, ensuring minimal disruption and maintaining stability. Additionally, the **scheduled upgrade window** set by users is fully respected throughout the process.

- The first step in the upgrade process is upgrading the **Kubernetes Control Plane**. This ensures that API server, controller manager, and scheduler components are upgraded before worker nodes.
- After the control plane is upgraded, the **Node Group upgrade** process begins. The workflow involves:
