---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/system-tables/query_log
topic: building-clickhouse-byoc-bring-your-own-cloud-on-aws
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

process is upgrading the **Kubernetes Control Plane**. This ensures that API server, controller manager, and scheduler components are upgraded before worker nodes. - After the control plane is upgraded, the **Node Group upgrade** process begins. The workflow involves:

	- **Node group duplication**: A new group of nodes is created with the upgraded configuration.
	- **Applying taints to old nodes**: Prevents new workloads from being scheduled on outdated nodes.
	- **Cordon \& drain process**: Workloads on old nodes are safely migrated to upgraded nodes.
	- **Skipping ClickHouse pods with an active upgrade window**: Ensures that pods continue to respect maintenance schedules and are not disrupted.
	- **Old Node Removal**: Once the migration is complete, outdated nodes are deleted.
- If additional **Kubernetes Addons** require upgrades (e.g. monitoring, networking, or logging components), they are upgraded in this final step.

The entire workflow follows an **idempotent flow**, meaning it can be re\-executed without causing duplicate or unintended side effects.

This structured approach enables safe, controlled, and scalable Kubernetes upgrades, minimizing service disruptions while providing full flexibility and control.

## Future Improvements [\#](/blog/building-clickhouse-byoc-on-aws#future-improvements)

While our BYOC implementation is robust, there are still areas we are looking to enhance:

- **Multi\-Cloud Support** – Our current BYOC implementation is optimized for AWS, but we are considering expanding to GCP and Azure to give customers more flexibility in their infrastructure choices.
- **ClickPipes support**– We would like to offer the same ClickPipe ingestion capabilities for BYOC while keeping the data in customers’ own VPC.
- **Self\-Service Capabilities** – We are working on enhancing the ClickHouse Cloud Console to give customers more control over their BYOC setup, including better customization of infrastructure and real\-time insights into their deployments.
- **Advanced Security Model** – Security is a top priority for BYOC, and requirements can vary among customers. We will continuously refine our security posture. This includes strengthening identity and access management (IAM),refining audit logging, and improving network isolation strategies.
- **More Flexibility** \- We aim to support a wider range of deployment configurations, including the ability to run BYOC within an existing customer\-managed VPC.

As we continue to iterate on our BYOC offering, we are committed to making it more secure, performant, and user\-friendly, ensuring that customers can get the best of ClickHouse while maintaining full control over their cloud environment.
