---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/table-functions/s3
topic: clickhouse-release-23-5
ch_version_introduced: '9.710'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

rows/s., 23.30 MB/s.) ``` With any table function, it often makes sense to expose an equivalent table engine for use cases where users wish to query a datasource like any other table. As shown, this simplifies subsequent queries:

```
CREATE TABLE uk_price_paid_azure
ENGINE = AzureBlobStorage('https://clickhousepublicdatasets.blob.core.windows.net/', 'ukpricepaid', 'uk_price_paid_*.parquet', 'clickhousepublicdatasets', '<key>')

SELECT
	toYear(toDate(date)) AS year,
	round(avg(price)) AS price,
	bar(price, 0, 1000000, 80)
FROM uk_price_paid_azure
GROUP BY year
ORDER BY year ASC

┌─year─┬──price─┬─bar(round(avg(price)), 0, 1000000, 80)─┐
│ 1995 │  67938 │ █████▍                             	│
│ 1996 │  71513 │ █████▋                             	│
│ 1997 │  78543 │ ██████▎                            	│

29 rows in set. Elapsed: 4.007 sec. Processed 28.28 million rows, 226.21 MB (7.06 million rows/s., 56.46 MB/s.)

```

Similar to the S3 and GCS functions, we can also use these functions to write ClickHouse data to an Azure Blob storage container, helping to address export and reverse ETL use cases.

```
INSERT INTO FUNCTION azureBlobStorage('https://clickhousepublicdatasets.blob.core.windows.net/', 'ukpricepaid', 'uk_price_paid_{_partition_id}.parquet', 'clickhousepublicdatasets', '<key>') PARTITION BY toYear(date) SELECT * FROM uk_price_paid;

```

In the above example, we use the `PARTITION BY` clause and `toYear` function and to create a Parquet file per year.

Hopefully this function unlocks projects for our users. The above function is limited in the sense it executes only on the receiving node, restricting the level of compute which can be assigned to a query. To address this we are actively working on an [azureBlobStorageCluster](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/50795) function. This will be conceptually equivalent to [s3Cluster](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/table-functions/s3Cluster) which distributes processing of files in an S3 bucket across a cluster by exploiting glob patterns. Stay tuned (and join release webinars) for updates!

We'd like to thank Jakub Kuklis who contributed the VFS level integration with Azure in 2021, with review and support provided by Kseniia Sumarokova.

## ClickHouse Keeper Client (Artem Brustovetskii) [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-05#clickhouse-keeper-client-artem-brustovetskii)

Last year we released [ClickHouse Keeper](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/sre/keeper/clickhouse-keeper) to provide strongly consistent storage for data associated with ClickHouse's cluster coordination system and is fundamental to allowing ClickHouse to function as a distributed system. This supports services such as data replication, distributed DDL query execution, leadership elections, and service discovery. ClickHouse Keeper is compatible with ZooKeeper, the legacy component used for this functionality in ClickHouse.

**ClickHouse Keeper is production ready. ClickHouse Cloud is running clickhouse\-keeper at large scale to support thousands of ClickHouse deployments in a multi\-tenant environment.**
