---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/table-functions/s3
topic: clickhouse-release-23-5
ch_version_introduced: '9.710'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

ClickHouse Keeper is compatible with ZooKeeper, the legacy component used for this functionality in ClickHouse. **ClickHouse Keeper is production ready. ClickHouse Cloud is running clickhouse\-keeper at large scale to support thousands of ClickHouse deployments in a multi\-tenant environment.**

Until now users would communicate with ClickHouse Keeper by sending commands directly over TCP using tools such as `nc` or `zkCli.sh`. While sufficient for basic debugging, this made administrative tasks a less than ideal user experience and were far from convenient. To address this, in 23\.5 we introduce `keeper-client` \- a simple tool built into ClickHouse for introspecting your ClickHouse Keeper.

To experiment with the client we can use our recently [released docker compose files](/blog/clickhouse-architectures-with-docker-compose), courtesy of our support team, to quickly start a multi\-node ClickHouse cluster. In the example below, we start a 2 node deployment with a single replicated shard and 3 keeper instances:

```
git@github.com:ClickHouse/examples.git
export CHKVER=23.5
export CHVER=23.5
cd examples/docker-compose-recipes/recipes/cluster_1S_2R/
docker-compose up 

```

The above exposes our keeper instances on ports 9181, 9182 and 9183\. Connecting with the client is as simple as:

```
./clickhouse keeper-client -h 127.0.0.1 -p 9181
/ :) ruok
imok
/ :) ls
clickhouse keeper
/ :)

```

Users can also exploit a `--query` parameter, similar to the ClickHouse Client, for bash scripting.

```
./clickhouse keeper-client -h 127.0.0.1 -p 9181 --query "ls/"
clickhouse keeper

```

Further available options can be found [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/utilities/clickhouse-keeper-client).

## Parquet reading even faster (Michael Kolupaev) [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-05#parquet-reading-even-faster-michael-kolupaev)

Recently we [blogged about the improvements](https://clickhouse.com/blog/apache-parquet-clickhouse-local-querying-writing-internals-row-groups) we’ve made with respect to the querying of Parquet files. These were the start of what we consider to be a journey in making ClickHouse the world’s fastest tool for querying Parquet files, either via [ClickHouse Local](https://clickhouse.com/blog/extracting-converting-querying-local-files-with-sql-clickhouse-local) or ClickHouse Server. Unsatisfied with recent efforts to parallelise reading of Parquet, by exploiting row groups, 23\.5 adds further improvements.
