---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/parametric-functions.md)#
topic: parametric-aggregate-functions-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '4.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

incremented. - If the data has multiple event chains at varying points of completion, the function will only output the size of the longest chain. **Syntax** ``` windowFunnel(window, [mode, [mode, ... ]])(timestamp, cond1, cond2, ..., condN) ``` **Arguments**

- `timestamp` — Name of the column containing the timestamp. Data types supported: [Date](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/date), [DateTime](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/datetime) and other unsigned integer types (note that even though timestamp supports the `UInt64` type, it's value can't exceed the Int64 maximum, which is 2^63 \- 1\).
- `cond` — Conditions or data describing the chain of events. [UInt8](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/int-uint).

**Parameters**

- `window` — Length of the sliding window, it is the time interval between the first and the last condition. The unit of `window` depends on the `timestamp` itself and varies. Determined using the expression `timestamp of cond1 <= timestamp of cond2 <= ... <= timestamp of condN <= timestamp of cond1 + window`.
- `mode` — It is an optional argument. One or more modes can be set.
	- `'strict_deduplication'` — If the same condition holds for the sequence of events, then such repeating event interrupts further processing. Note: it may work unexpectedly if several conditions hold for the same event.
	- `'strict_order'` — Don't allow interventions of other events. E.g. in the case of `A->B->D->C`, it stops finding `A->B->C` at the `D` and the max event level is 2\.
	- `'strict_increase'` — Apply conditions only to events with strictly increasing timestamps.
	- `'strict_once'` — Count each event only once in the chain even if it meets the condition several times.
	- `'allow_reentry'` — Ignore events that violate the strict order. E.g. in the case of A\-\>A\-\>B\-\>C, it finds A\-\>B\-\>C by ignoring the redundant A and the max event level is 3\.

**Returned value**

The maximum number of consecutive triggered conditions from the chain within the sliding time window.
All the chains in the selection are analyzed.

Type: `Integer`.

**Example**

Determine if a set period of time is enough for the user to select a phone and purchase it twice in the online store.

Set the following chain of events:
