---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/base/glibc-compatibility);
topic: more-than-2x-faster-hashing-in-clickhouse-using-rust
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

pointer to Rust byte array type in the beginning takes almost no time, because convertion of pointer to string is intended to be 0\-cost and convertion to byte array has a constant cost in Rust. ## Problems [\#](/blog/more-than-2x-faster-hashing-in-clickhouse-using-rust#problems)

During BLAKE3 integration we encountered some problems. The first was connected with C\+\+ Memory Sanitizer, which wasn’t able to comprehend operations with memory in Rust and flagged them as false positive. It was resolved by using \_*msan*unpoison Memory Sanitizer function on input data and adding a version of shim method with more explicit byte array conversion. After all fixes false positives were gone and Memory Sanitizer was working correctly.

Another problem is connected with multiplatform building and linking. While most platforms supported by ClickHouse were configured easily using Cargo, some required additional configuration via CMake or specific packages/frameworks. For now, only one platform (aarch64\-darwin) remains unsupported, because of some troubles with linkage during build process.

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/more-than-2x-faster-hashing-in-clickhouse-using-rust#conclusion)

The possibility of integrating libraries in Rust language was implemented, and the BLAKE3 hash function was added as an example library. This allows us to:

1. Add and use other Rust libraries in ClickHouse in the future.
2. Use BLAKE3 in the future along with other hash functions in ClickHouse, taking advantage of its speed and security features.

## A comment from Alexey Milovidov [\#](/blog/more-than-2x-faster-hashing-in-clickhouse-using-rust#a-comment-from-alexey-milovidov)

We want to add support for Rust in the build as an experiment. There is a vibrant community and there are many good, high\-quality libraries in Rust, that we can use in ClickHouse. At the same time, we want to make the integration as unobtrusive as possible. We are using the "you don’t pay for what you don’t use" principle: the Rust integration should not stand in your way and scream about how nice it is.

There were the following requirements for the integration:
