---
source: blog
url: https://hex.tech/
topic: building-real-time-analytics-apps-with-clickhouse-and-hex
ch_version_introduced: '890.80'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

`commits`, `file_changes`, and `line_changes` with a time greater than this value are sent to ClickHouse. For inserting data generated by `git-import`, we simply use the `clickhouse-client` and [`clickhouse-local`](https://clickhouse.com/blog/extracting-converting-querying-local-files-with-sql-clickhouse-local) tools \- see below. ## A few schema tweaks [\#](/blog/building-real-time-applications-with-clickhouse-and-hex-notebook-keeper-engine#a-few-schema-tweaks)

The tables `commits`, `file_changes`, and `line_changes` all have very distinct schemas. Rather than deciding on a database per repository (or tables with repo\-identifying suffixes/prefixes), we decided to store all data for all repositories in the same three tables. This should mean we can potentially scale to millions of repositories in the future. However, the default schemas for the `commits`, `line_changes`, and `file_changes` tables have no column which identifies the repository name. We thus add this to the rows at insert time. Given the repository name will be the main filter in our application, we also make this the first entry in the primary key for all our tables \- thus adhering to [ClickHouse best practices](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes#using-multiple-primary-indexes) and aligning with our access patterns. Finally, we add a `updated_at` materialized column which is always set to the value of `now()` when a row is inserted. This allows us to easily identify when repositories were last updated (we use this when keeping the data up\-to\-date). Below we show the schema for the commits table. Full schemas for the other tables can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhub/).

```
CREATE TABLE git.commits
(
    `hash` String,
    `author` LowCardinality(String),
    `time` DateTime,
    `message` String,
    `files_added` UInt32,
    `files_deleted` UInt32,
    `files_renamed` UInt32,
    `files_modified` UInt32,
    `lines_added` UInt32,
    `lines_deleted` UInt32,
    `hunks_added` UInt32,
    `hunks_removed` UInt32,
    `hunks_changed` UInt32,
    `repo_name` LowCardinality(String),
    `updated_at` DateTime MATERIALIZED now()
)
ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree
ORDER BY (repo_name, time, hash)

```

Note that we use a [ReplacingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree). This table engine removes duplicate rows (having the same primary key) asynchronously during background merges. This ensures any duplicates are eventually removed, e.g., in the event our earlier approach of using the max time of the commits in ClickHouse, to filter out already inserted rows during repository updates fails. This is eventual deduplication and should be sufficient for our analytical needs. Other tables thus have `ORDER BY` keys which provide the required unique row identification.

Finally, using `updated_at`, we periodically identify the repositories with the oldest time and thus need to be updated. These are then scheduled to the queue for processing.

## The datasets [\#](/blog/building-real-time-applications-with-clickhouse-and-hex-notebook-keeper-engine#the-datasets)
