---
source: blog
url: http://brandonharris.io/redshift-clickhouse-time-series/
topic: testing-the-performance-of-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

in this endless stream of changes, and the performance is no exception. For this reason, we have to have some process that allows us to ensure than ClickHouse always stays fast. ## Measuring and Comparing the Performance [\#](/blog/testing-the-performance-of-click-house#measuring-and-comparing-the-performance)

How do we know it is fast, in the first place? We do a lot of benchmarks, many kinds of them. The most basic kind of a benchmark is a micro\-benchmark, that doesn't use the full code of the server and tests a particular algorithm in isolation. We use them to choose a better inner loop for some aggregate function, or to test various layouts of hash tables, and so on. For example, when we discovered that a competing database engine completes a query with `sum` aggregate function twice as fast, we tested a couple of dozen implementations of `sum` to ultimately find the one that gives the best performance (see [a talk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MJJfWoWJq0o) about this, in Russian). But testing a particular algorithm by itself is not enough to say how the entire query is going to work. We have to also make end\-to\-end measurements of entire queries, often using the real production data, because the particulars of the data (e.g. the cardinality and the distribution of values) heavily influence the performance. Currently we have about 3000 end\-to\-end test queries organized into about 200 [tests](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/6c4c3df96e41425185beb0c471a8dde0ce6f25a7/tests/performance). Many of them use real data sets, such as the [production data of Yandex.Metrica](/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/metrica/), obfuscated with `clickhouse-obfuscator` as described [here](https://habr.com/ru/company/yandex/blog/485096/).

Micro\-benchmarks are normally ran by a developer while working on the code, but it is not practical to manually run the entire battery of the end\-to\-end tests for each change. We use an automated system that does this for each pull request as part of continuous integration checks. It measures whether the code changes introduced by a pull request influenced the performance, for which kinds of queries and by how much, and alerts the developer if there is a regression. Here is how a typical report looks.
