---
source: blog
url: http://brandonharris.io/redshift-clickhouse-time-series/
topic: testing-the-performance-of-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

the observed values to some reference distribution, and deciding whether what we observed can plausibly belong to this distribution, or, on the contrary, it cannot, which means that the performance characteristics of the patched server are indeed different.

Choosing the reference distribution is the starting point. One way to obtain it is to build a mathematical model of the process. This works well for simple things like tossing a coin a fixed number of times. We can analytically deduce that the number of heads we get follows the binomial distribution, and get a confidence interval on this number, given the required [level of significance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/P-value#Definition_and_interpretation). If the observed number of heads doesn't belong to this interval, we can conclude that the coin is biased. However, modeling the query execution from first principles is too complex. The best we can do is to use the hardware capabilities to estimate how fast the query could run, in principle, and try to achieve this throughput.

For complex processes which resist modeling, a practical option is to use the historical data from the same process. We actually used to do this for ClickHouse. For each tested commit, we measured the run times for each test query and saved them into a database. We could compare the patched server to these reference values, build graphs of changes over time and so on. The main problem with this approach is systematic errors induced by environment. Sometimes the performance testing task ends up on a machine with dying HDD, or they update `atop` to a broken version that slows every kernel call in half, et cetera, ad infinitum. This is why now we employ another approach.
