---
source: blog
url: http://brandonharris.io/redshift-clickhouse-time-series/
topic: testing-the-performance-of-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

performance testing task ends up on a machine with dying HDD, or they update `atop` to a broken version that slows every kernel call in half, et cetera, ad infinitum. This is why now we employ another approach.

We run the reference version of the server process and the tested version, simultaneously on the same machine, and run the test queries on each of them in turn, one by one. This way we eliminate most systematic errors, because both servers are equally influenced by them. We can then compare the set of results we got from the reference server process, and the set from the test server process, to see whether they look the same. Comparing the distributions using two samples is a very interesting problem in itself. We use a non\-parametric bootstrap method to build a randomization distribution for the observed difference of median query run times. This method is described in detail in [\[1]](#ref1), where they apply it to see how changing a fertilizer mixture changes the yield of tomato plants. ClickHouse is not much different from tomatoes, only we have to check how the changes in code influence the performance.

This method ultimately gives a single threshold number *T*: what is the largest difference in median query run times between old and new server, that we can observe even if nothing has changed. Then we have a simple decision protocol given this threshold *T* and the measured difference of medians *D*:

1. *abs(D) \<\= T* — the changes are not statistically significant,
2. *abs(D) \<\= 5%* — the changes are too small to be important,
3. *abs(T) \>\= 10%* — the test query has excessive run time variance that leads to poor sensitivity,
4. finally, *abs(D) \>\= T and abs(D) \>\= 5%* — there are statistically significant changes of significant magnitude.
