---
source: blog
url: http://brandonharris.io/redshift-clickhouse-time-series/
topic: testing-the-performance-of-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

be important, 3. *abs(T) \>\= 10%* — the test query has excessive run time variance that leads to poor sensitivity, 4. finally, *abs(D) \>\= T and abs(D) \>\= 5%* — there are statistically significant changes of significant magnitude.

The most interesting case are the unstable queries *(3\)*. When the elapsed time changes significantly between runs even on the same version of server, it means we won't be able to detect the changes of performance, because they are going to be drowned out by the noise. Such queries tend to be the most difficult to debug, because there is no straightforward way to compare "good" and "bad" server. This topic deserves its own article which we will publish next. For now, let's consider the happy path *(4\)*. This is the case of real and notable changes in performance that this system is intended to catch. What do we do next?

## Understanding the Reasons Behind the Changes [\#](/blog/testing-the-performance-of-click-house#understanding-the-reasons-behind-the-changes)

An investigation of code performance often starts with applying a profiler. On Linux, you would use `perf`, a sampling profiler that periodically collects the stack trace of the process, so that you can then see an aggregate picture of where your program spends the most time. In ClickHouse, we actually have a built\-in sampling profiler that saves results into a system table, so no external tools are needed. It can be enabled for all queries or for a particular one, by passing the settings [as described in the docs](/docs/en/operations/optimizing-performance/sampling-query-profiler/). It is on by default, so if you use a recent version of ClickHouse, you already have a combined profile of your production server load. To visualize it, we can use a well\-known script for building [flamegraphs](https://github.com/brendangregg/FlameGraph):

```
clickhouse-client -q "SELECT
    arrayStringConcat(
        arrayMap(
            x -> concat(splitByChar('/', addressToLine(x))[-1],
                '#', demangle(addressToSymbol(x))),
            trace),
        ';') AS stack,
    count(*) AS samples
FROM system.trace_log
WHERE trace_type = 'Real'
AND query_id = '4aac5305-b27f-4a5a-91c3-61c0cf52ec2a'
GROUP BY trace" \
| flamegraph.pl


```
