---
source: blog
url: http://brandonharris.io/redshift-clickhouse-time-series/
topic: testing-the-performance-of-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

is that the user must be able to investigate a problematic query post\-mortem, without running it again locally. This is why we try to export every metric and every intermediate result we have, in easily\-manipulated plain text formats.

Organizationally, it is hard to prevent devolving into a system that does a lot of busywork to just show a green check without giving any insight. I like to call this process "mining the green check", by analogy to cryptocurrencies. Our previous system did just that. It used increasingly complex heuristics tailored to each test query to prevent false positives, restarted itself many times if the results didn't look good, and so on. Ultimately, it wasted a lot of processing power without giving the real picture of the server performance. If you wanted to be sure that the performance did or did not change, you had to recheck by hand. This sorry state is the result of how the incentives are aligned around development — most of the time, the developers just want to merge their pull requests and not be bothered by some obscure test failures. Writing a good performance test query is also not always simple. Just any other query won't do — it has to give predictable performance, be not too fast and not too slow, actually measure something, and so on. After gathering more precise statistics, we discovered that several hundred of our test queries don't measure anything meaningful, e.g. they give a result that varies by 100% between runs. Another problem is that the performance often changes in statistically significant ways (true positive) with no relevant code changes (due to e.g. random differences in layout of the executable). Given all these difficulties, a working performance test system is bound to add noticeable friction to the development process. Most of the "obvious" ways to remove this friction ultimately boil down to "mining the green check".
