---
source: blog
url: https://www.ongage.com/
topic: ongage-s-strategic-shift-to-clickhouse-for-real-time-email-marketing
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

ClickHouse clearly emerged as the champion, considering the specific needs and plans Ongage had. ## The Decision: Why ClickHouse Cloud? [\#](/blog/ongages-strategic-shift-to-clickhouse-for-real-time-email-marketing#the-decision-why-clickhouse-cloud) Ongage's decision to use ClickHouse Cloud over the open\-source self\-managed option was influenced by several key factors.

Firstly, the operational efficiency of the cloud solution stood out. Raslin explained, "We spent so much work and money into managing the Mongo clusters and the Redshift clusters. We don't want to waste this time anymore." Despite their DevOps team being comfortable with self\-hosting, they recognized the substantial time and resources they could conserve by opting for ClickHouse Cloud. The operational burden of managing MongoDB and Redshift clusters was already heavy, and bypassing such hassles was too appealing to pass up.

Secondly, the value of the ClickHouse support team cannot be understated. They played a crucial role in Ongage's accelerated transformation, providing vital tips and clarifications that made the whole process smoother. This collaboration proved to be a winning formula \- working directly with the developers of the product ensured that Ongage was using ClickHouse to its full potential. As Raslin put it, "For sure, the people who build the technology are best equipped to operate it."

Lastly, the financial aspect also weighed in favor of ClickHouse Cloud. During the transformation phase, the service offered substantial cost savings by scaling automatically based on use, ensuring that resources were used efficiently. It was the ideal balance of performance and cost\-effectiveness for Ongage's needs.

## ClickHouse In Action: Seamless Transition and Enhancing Ongage's Use Cases [\#](/blog/ongages-strategic-shift-to-clickhouse-for-real-time-email-marketing#clickhouse-in-action-seamless-transition-and-enhancing-ongages-use-cases)

Ongage's transition to ClickHouse was smoother than expected due to its compatibility with MySQL, meaning most of their existing queries functioned without modifications. As Raslin highlighted “The query didn't change much from what we had before, given the similarities in table structures between MySQL \& Redshift.” This compatibility greatly facilitated the integration, reducing potential disruptions.

Once Ongage had ClickHouse integrated into their system, two main use cases were identified.

The first use case revolved around campaign analytics. Ongage implemented ClickHouse with the current UI that their customers were already familiar with. This ensured a seamless transition where users noticed a marked increase in speed, without having to adjust to a new interface. Behind the scenes, a newly built microservice in front of ClickHouse was deployed, utilizing Node.js.
