---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/tests/queries/0_stateless
topic: fuzzing-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '10.000100135803223'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

SQL DBMS, and it is the default kind of a test you are expected to write for any ClickHouse feature or fix. Currently we have [73k lines of SQL tests alone](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/tests/queries/0_stateless), that reach the [code coverage of 76%](https://clickhouse-test-reports.s3.yandex.net/0/47d684a5c35410201d4dd4f63f3287bf25cdabb7/coverage_report/test_output/index.html).

This form of testing, where a developer writes a few simplified examples of how the feature can and cannot be used, is sometimes called "example\-based testing". Sadly, the bugs often appear in various corner cases and intersections of features, and it is not practical to enumerate all of these cases by hand. There is a technique for automating this process, called "property\-based testing". It lets you write more general tests of the form "for all values matching these specs, the result of some operation on them should match this other spec". For example, such a test can check that if you add two positive numbers, the result is greater than both of them. But you don't specify which numbers exactly, only these properties. Then, the property testing system randomly generates some examples with particular numbers that match the specification, and checks that the result also matches its specification.

Property\-based testing is said to be very efficient, but requires some developer effort and expertise to write the tests in a special way. There is another well\-known testing technique that is in some sense a corner case of property\-based testing, and that doesn't require much developer time. It is called fuzzing. When you are fuzzing your program, you feed it random inputs generated according to some grammar, and the property you are checking is that your program terminates correctly (no segfaults or assertions or other kinds of program errors). Most often, the grammar of input for fuzzing is simple — say, bit flips and additions, or maybe some dictionary. The space of possible inputs is huge, so to find interesting paths in it, fuzzing software records the code paths taken by the program under test for a particular input, and focuses on the inputs that lead to new code paths that were not seen before. It also employs some techniques for finding interesting constant values, and so on. In general, fuzzing allows you to find many interesting corner cases in your program automatically, without much developer involvement.
