---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/tests/queries/0_stateless
topic: fuzzing-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '10.000100135803223'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

paths that were not seen before. It also employs some techniques for finding interesting constant values, and so on. In general, fuzzing allows you to find many interesting corner cases in your program automatically, without much developer involvement.

Generating valid SQL queries with bit flips would take a long time, so there are systems that generate queries based on the SQL grammar, such as [SQLSmith](https://github.com/anse1/sqlsmith). They are succesfully used for finding bugs in databases. It would be interesting to use such a system for ClickHouse, but it requires some up\-front effort to support the ClickHouse SQL grammar and functions, which may be different from the standard. Also, such systems don't use any feedback, so while they are much better than systems with primitive grammar, they still might have a hard time finding interesting examples. But we already have a big corpus of human\-written interesting SQL queries — it's in our regression tests. Maybe we can use them as a base for fuzzing? We tried to do this, and it turned out to be surprisingly simple and efficient.

## AST\-based Query Fuzzer [\#](/blog/fuzzing-click-house#ast-based-query-fuzzer)

Consider some SQL query from a regression test. After parsing, it is easy to mutate the resulting AST (abstract syntax tree, an internal representation of the parsed query) before execution to introduce random changes into the query. For strings and arrays, we make random modifications such as inserting a random character or doubling the string. For numbers, there are well\-known Bad Numbers such as 0, 1, powers of two and nearby, integer limits, `NaN`. `NaN`s proved to be especially efficient in finding bugs, because you can often have some alternative branches in your numeric code, but for a `NaN`, both branches hold (or not) simultaneously, so this leads to nasty effects.

Another interesting thing we can do is change the arguments of functions, or the list of expressions in `SELECT`, `ORDER BY` and so on. Naturally, all the interesting arguments can be taken from other test queries. Same goes for changing the tables used in the queries. When the fuzzer runs in CI, it runs queries from all the SQL tests in random order, mixing into them some parts of queries it has seen previously. This process can eventually cover all the possible permutations of our features.
