---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/tests/queries/0_stateless
topic: fuzzing-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '10.000100135803223'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

fuzzer runs in CI, it runs queries from all the SQL tests in random order, mixing into them some parts of queries it has seen previously. This process can eventually cover all the possible permutations of our features.

The core implementation of the fuzzer is relatively small, consisting of about 700 lines of C\+\+ code. A prototype was made in a couple of days, but naturally it took significantly longer to polish it and to start routinely using it in CI. It is very productive and let us find more than 200 bugs already (see the label [fuzz](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/labels/fuzz) on GitHub), some of which are serious logic errors or even memory errors. When we only started, we could segfault the server or make it enter a never\-ending loop with simplest read\-only queries such as `SELECT arrayReverseFill(x -> (x < 10), [])` or `SELECT geoDistance(0., 0., -inf, 1.)`. Of course I couldn't resist bringing down our [public playground](https://gh-api.clickhouse.com/play?user=play#LS0gWW91IGNhbiBxdWVyeSB0aGUgR2l0SHViIGhpc3RvcnkgZGF0YSBoZXJlLiBTZWUgaHR0cHM6Ly9naC5jbGlja2hvdXNlLnRlY2gvZXhwbG9yZXIvIGZvciB0aGUgZGVzY3JpcHRpb24gYW5kIGV4YW1wbGUgcXVlcmllcy4Kc2VsZWN0ICdoZWxsbyB3b3JsZCc=) with some of these queries, and was content to see that the server soon restarts correctly. These queries are actually minified by hand, normally the fuzzer would generate something barely intelligible such as:

```
SELECT
    (val + 257,
      (((tuple(NULL), 10.000100135803223), tuple(-inf)), '-1', (NULL, '0.10', NULL), NULL),
      (val + 9223372036854775807) = (rval * 100),
      tuple(65535), tuple(NULL), NULL, NULL),
    *
FROM 
(
    SELECT dummy AS val
    FROM system.one
) AS s1
ANY LEFT JOIN 
(
    SELECT toLowCardinality(toNullable(dummy)) AS rval
    FROM system.one
) AS s2 ON (val + 100) = (rval * 7)

```

In principle, we could add automated test case minification by modifying AST in the same vein with fuzzing. This is somewhat complicated by the fact that the server dies after every, excuse my pun, successfully failed query, so we didn't implement it yet.
