---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/tests/queries/0_stateless
topic: fuzzing-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '10.000100135803223'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

automated test case minification by modifying AST in the same vein with fuzzing. This is somewhat complicated by the fact that the server dies after every, excuse my pun, successfully failed query, so we didn't implement it yet.

Not all errors the fuzzer finds are significant, some of them are pretty boring and harmless, such as a wrong error code for an out\-of\-bounds argument. We still try to fix all of them, because this lets us ensure that under normal operation, the fuzzer doesn't find any errors. This is similar to the approach usually taken with compiler warnings and other optional diagnostics — it's better to fix or disable every single case, so that you can be sure you have no diagnostics if everything is OK, and it's easy to notice new problems.

After fixing the majority of pre\-existing error, this fuzzer became efficient for finding errors in new features. Pull requests introducing new features normally add an SQL test, and we pay extra attention to the new tests when fuzzing, generating more permutations for them. Even if the coverage of the test is not sufficient, there is a good chance that the fuzzer will find the missing corner cases. So when we see that all the fuzzer runs in different configurations have failed for a particular pull request, this almost always means that it introduces a new bug. When developing a feature that requires new grammar, it is also helpful to add fuzzing support for it. I did this for window functions early in the development, and it helped me find several bugs.
