---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/tests/queries/0_stateless
topic: fuzzing-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '10.000100135803223'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

a new bug. When developing a feature that requires new grammar, it is also helpful to add fuzzing support for it. I did this for window functions early in the development, and it helped me find several bugs.

A major factor that makes fuzzing really efficient for us is that we have a lot of assertions and other checks of program logic in our code. For debug\-only checks, we use the plain `assert` macro from `<cassert>`. For checks that are needed even in release mode, we use an exception with a special code `LOGICAL_ERROR` that signifies an internal program error. We did some work to ensure that these errors are distinct from errors caused by the wrong user actions. A user error reported for a randomly generated query is normal (e.g. it references some non\-existent columns), but when we see an internal program error, we know that it's definitely a bug, same as an assertion. Of course, even without assertions, you get some checks for memory errors provided by the OS (segfaults). Another way to add runtime checks to your program is to use some kind of sanitizer. We already run most of our tests under clang's Address, Memory, UndefinedBehavior and Thread sanitizers. Using them in conjunction with this fuzzer also proved to be very efficient.

To see for yourself how the fuzzer works, you only need the normal ClickHouse client. Start `clickhouse-client --query-fuzzer-runs=100`, enter any query, and enjoy the client going crazy and running a hundred of random queries instead. All queries from the current session become a source for expressions for fuzzing, so try entering several different queries to get more interesting results. Be careful not to do this in production! When you do this experiment, you'll soon notice that the fuzzer tends to generate queries that take very long to run. This is why for the CI fuzzer runs we have to configure the server to limit query execution time, memory usage and so on using the corresponding [server settings](/docs/en/operations/settings/query-complexity/#:~:text=In%20the%20default%20configuration%20file,query%20within%20a%20single%20server.). We had a hilarious situation after that: the fuzzer figured out how to remove the limits by generating a `SET max_execution_time = 0` query, and then generated a never\-ending query and failed. Thankfully we were able to defeat its cleverness by using [settings constraints](/docs/en/operations/settings/constraints-on-settings/).

## Other Fuzzers [\#](/blog/fuzzing-click-house#other-fuzzers)
