---
source: blog
url: https://temporal.io/
topic: building-chronicle-how-temporal-supercharged-their-observability-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

just about understanding bugs and outages,” Sean says, [quoting](https://charity.wtf/2024/08/07/is-it-time-to-version-observability-signs-point-to-yes/) Honeycomb.io founder Charity Majors. “It’s about proactively understanding our software and how users are experiencing it, through the raw data we can collect and query efficiently thanks to ClickHouse.”

For Temporal, the initial challenge was handling the cardinality problem — caused by the need to track unique values, such as tenant IDs, which grow exponentially with the number of tenants. In multi\-tenant systems, every combination of tenant and system metric multiplies the dataset, leading to ballooning storage requirements and slower query performance.

“In our case, if you have a bunch of tenants coming into your system, and you add new nodes to accommodate the new tenants, then the amount of metrics your system produces grows quadratically,” Sean says. “This was a huge problem for us.”

Adding to the complexity was the need to slice data by tenant and environment to quickly identify and address issues affecting specific customers. Sean and the Temporal team realized that scaling observability in this way would require a totally new approach — one that could efficiently manage and query such vast amounts of data in real time.

## Building Chronicle with ClickHouse [\#](/blog/building-chronicle-how-temporal-supercharged-their-observability-with-clickhouse#building-chronicle-with-clickhouse)

In 2023, Temporal began building their new observability system, Chronicle. They chose ClickHouse, a column\-oriented OLAP database, for its advantages over traditional time\-series databases like Prometheus and Graphite, and for what Sean describes as ClickHouse’s reputation as a “pretty spectacular piece of technology.”

According to Sean, one of the team’s two main goals at the start of the project was removing field cardinality as a scaling concern. “We want our observability system to embrace cardinality and ingest as much data as it possibly can,” he says.

Temporal’s other primary objective was enabling new query patterns that were previously impossible. “This is really important for our developer success organization,” Sean says. “We want to dive in and see exactly the types of problems our customers are having.”

At the Seattle meetup, Sean shared more about three key components of Chronicle: distributed tables, schema optimization, and write\-read aggregation.

## Distributed tables [\#](/blog/building-chronicle-how-temporal-supercharged-their-observability-with-clickhouse#distributed-tables)
