---
source: blog
url: https://temporal.io/
topic: building-chronicle-how-temporal-supercharged-their-observability-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

example, with ClickHouse, queries related to request durations — such as heat maps that show latency patterns — can be rendered in under 50 milliseconds, enabling better system monitoring and leading to what Sean calls “true real\-time performance.”

“We use this to optimize common dashboard queries, such that dashboards load almost instantaneously,” he says. “We can do this because the ClickHouse materialized view operation is relatively cheap in the grand scheme of ClickHouse ingestion compute.”

## A major performance boost [\#](/blog/building-chronicle-how-temporal-supercharged-their-observability-with-clickhouse#a-major-performance-boost)

Since implementing Chronicle with ClickHouse, Temporal has seen a number of big wins. Their ingestion system now processes up to 150,000 rows per second, with individual CPU cores handling up to 60,000 rows per second at peak efficiency. Sean says [async inserts](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/cloud/bestpractices/asynchronous-inserts) have been “wildly important,” explaining: “We’ve found that by using async inserts with a five\-second wait period, we can ingest substantially more data with the same compute profile.”

Beyond ingestion speed, the system has delivered “extremely fast” query performance, with write\-aggregated tables returning results in under 200 milliseconds — especially valuable for real\-time monitoring dashboards. Chronicle has also shown impressive data compression capabilities, with its largest table achieving a 36\.59x compression ratio (which Sean points out is “three times what the ClickHouse website advertises”) largely due to the efficient handling of tenant IDs and other low\-cardinality strings.

Finally, Sean highlights the team’s satisfaction with the overall system optimization: “The write\-time aggregation for ClickHouse has been particularly impressive for its query performance, making our internal dashboards appear really snappy.”

## The road ahead [\#](/blog/building-chronicle-how-temporal-supercharged-their-observability-with-clickhouse#the-road-ahead)

Building on the success of Chronicle, Temporal continues to explore ways of enhancing its observability. One potential area for improvement, Sean notes, is moving towards schemaless ingestion, which could reduce the overhead of managing table schemas as new data sources are onboarded. Another idea Temporal is exploring is the possibility of separating compute pools for querying and ingestion. This change would ensure that heavy queries don’t disrupt the ingestion process, leading to even greater system stability.
