---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/clickhouse-query-optimisation-definitive-guide
topic: using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

will not be removed (though it's older than one month): ``` ``` 1SELECT * FROM events; ``` ``` ``` ┌─event─────┬────────────────time─┬─value─┐ │ error │ 2023-01-24 09:48:05 │ 123 │ │ not_error │ 2022-11-24 09:48:05 │ 123 │ └───────────┴─────────────────────┴───────┘ ```

### Multiple delete conditions [\#](/blog/using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse#multiple-delete-conditions)

ClickHouse allows specifying multiple TTL statements. This allows us to be more flexible and specific about what to remove and when. Let's say we want to remove all non `error` events in 1 month and all errors after 6 months:

```

```
1CREATE TABLE events
2(
3    `event` String,
4    `time` DateTime,
5    `value` UInt64
6)
7ENGINE = MergeTree
8ORDER BY (event, time)
9TTL time + INTERVAL 1 MONTH DELETE WHERE event != 'error',
10    time + INTERVAL 6 MONTH DELETE WHERE event = 'error';
```

```

We can have any number of rules configured for the `TTL` statement.

### Move data to historical tables [\#](/blog/using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse#move-data-to-historical-tables)

We can use [Materialized Views](https://clickhouse.com/blog/using-materialized-views-in-clickhouse) in combination with a `TTL` statement to address cases where we might want to move outdated data to another table before being removed from the main table.

Suppose we want to move `error` events to the table `errors_history` before removing them from the `events` table. First, we create a target table for a materialized view, which is of the same structure as the `events` table:

```

```
1CREATE TABLE errors_history (
2    `event` String,
3    `time` DateTime,
4    `value` UInt64
5)
6ENGINE = MergeTree
7ORDER BY (event, time);
```

```

**Note** that we can't use `CREATE TABLE errors_history AS events` as this will also copy the TTL expression, which we don't want to happen. Then we create the materialized view trigger to ingest data automatically into the `errors_history` table:

```

```
1CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW errors_history_mv TO errors_history AS
2SELECT * FROM events WHERE event = 'error';
```

```

Now, when we insert data into the `events` table, `error` events are automatically inserted into the `errors_history` table as well. On the other hand, when the `TTL` procedure removes records from the `events` table, they remain in the `errors_history` table.

## Compacting historical data using aggregations [\#](/blog/using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse#compacting-historical-data-using-aggregations)
