---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/clickhouse-query-optimisation-definitive-guide
topic: using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

`error` events are automatically inserted into the `errors_history` table as well. On the other hand, when the `TTL` procedure removes records from the `events` table, they remain in the `errors_history` table. ## Compacting historical data using aggregations [\#](/blog/using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse#compacting-historical-data-using-aggregations)

In many cases, we don't want to delete the data, but we can afford to reduce its level of detail in order to save resources. For example, let's consider a situation when we don't want to remove `error` events from our table. At the same time, we might not need the per\-second details after one month, so we can leave daily aggregated numbers.

This can be implemented using a `GROUP BY ... SET` clause of the `TTL` statement:

```

```
1CREATE TABLE events
2(
3    `event` String,
4    `time` DateTime,
5    `value` UInt64
6)
7ENGINE = MergeTree
8ORDER BY (toDate(time), event)
9TTL time + INTERVAL 1 MONTH GROUP BY toDate(time), event SET value = SUM(value);
```

```

Several important points here:

- The `GROUP BY toDate(time), event` expression should be a prefix of the [primary key](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/improving-query-performance/sparse-primary-indexes/sparse-primary-indexes-design), so we also changed `ORDER BY (toDate(time), event)`.
- The `SET value = SUM(value)` clause will set the `value` column to the sum of all values in each group (usual behavior for the `GROUP BY` clauses in queries).
- The `time` column value will be chosen randomly during grouping (as in the case of using [`any()` aggregate function](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/any/)).

Let's ensure the following data is inserted:

```

```
1INSERT INTO events VALUES('error', now() - interval 2 month, 123),
2                         ('error', now() - interval 2 month, 321);
```

```

After some time, when background merge happens, we can see our data is aggregated:

```

```
1SELECT * FROM events;
```

```

```
┌─event─┬────────────────time─┬─value─┐
│ error │ 2022-11-24 12:36:23 │   444 │
└───────┴─────────────────────┴───────┘

```

## Changing compression [\#](/blog/using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse#changing-compression)

While it may not be feasible to remove or aggregate data, you may have more relaxed query SLAs for your historical data. To address this, we can consider using higher [compression](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/database-compression) levels for older data to save more space. For example, we can ask ClickHouse to use [`LZ4HC`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/table/#lz4hc) compression of the higher level for the data older than one month. We need to use the `RECOMPRESS` clause for this:
