---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/clickhouse-query-optimisation-definitive-guide
topic: using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

levels for older data to save more space. For example, we can ask ClickHouse to use [`LZ4HC`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/table/#lz4hc) compression of the higher level for the data older than one month. We need to use the `RECOMPRESS` clause for this:

```

```
1CREATE TABLE events
2(
3    `event` String,
4    `time` DateTime,
5    `value` UInt64
6)
7ENGINE = MergeTree
8ORDER BY (toDate(time), event)
9TTL time + INTERVAL 1 MONTH RECOMPRESS CODEC(LZ4HC(10));
```

```

Note that recompressed data will take less space but will also take more time to compress, thus impacting insertion times.

## Column\-level TTL [\#](/blog/using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse#column-level-ttl)

We can also manage the lifecycle of a single column using `TTL`. Suppose we have a `debug` column in our table that stores additional debug information (e.g., errors backtrace). This column is only useful for one week, during which it consumes a lot of space. We can ask ClickHouse to reset it to the default value after a week:

```

```
1CREATE TABLE events
2(
3    `event` String,
4    `time` DateTime,
5    `value` UInt64,
6    `debug` String TTL time + INTERVAL 1 WEEK
7)
8ENGINE = MergeTree
9ORDER BY (event, time);
```

```

Now let's insert an outdated record with a `debug` column value:

```

```
1INSERT INTO events VALUES('error', now() - interval 1 month, 45, 'a lot of details');
```

```

ClickHouse will reset this `debug` column value to an empty string once the TTL processing is completed:

```

```
1SELECT * FROM events;
```

```

```
в”Ңв”Җeventв”Җв”¬в”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җtimeв”Җв”¬в”Җvalueв”Җв”¬в”Җdebugв”Җв”җ
в”Ӯ error в”Ӯ 2022-12-24 15:13:54 в”Ӯ    45 в”Ӯ       в”Ӯ
в””в”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҙв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”Җв”ҳ

```

Note that ClickHouse will use the default value for the column `TTL`. So in case the `DEFAULT` expression is present, outdated columns will have this value assigned.

## Moving data between hot and cold storage [\#](/blog/using-ttl-to-manage-data-lifecycles-in-clickhouse#moving-data-between-hot-and-cold-storage)

For local setups, consider using storage management for your data. Typically users need faster but smaller disks (called hot, e.g., SSD) and larger but slower ones (called cold, e.g., HDD or S3\). ClickHouse allows setting data policy so that data is moved to a slower device once the faster device usage reaches a specific threshold. This storage policy is [configured](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#table_engine-mergetree-multiple-volumes_configure) in two steps \- declaring a storage list and a policy.
