---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-data-migration/remote-table-function/
topic: data-migration-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1453831.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

# Data Migration \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

This is the multi\-page printable view of this section.
[Click here to print](#).

[Return to the regular view of this page](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-data-migration/).

# Data Migration

Data Migration- 1: [MSSQL bcp pipe to clickhouse\-client](#pg-995190106d7ed9690cfa9cfd364aec72)
- 2: [Add/Remove a new replica to a ClickHouse® cluster](#pg-11fb2857cf3b2c7a29cb57f3cb63eba6)
- 3: [clickhouse\-copier](#pg-49f38a883c7ec4fc908726a6854c7bbe)
- 3\.1: [clickhouse\-copier 20\.3 and earlier](#pg-e1f1d825521583c133a8d3bf2a72f6e7)
- 3\.2: [clickhouse\-copier 20\.4 \- 21\.6](#pg-4907e613a878d5b7819f49cc367b9f3f)
- 3\.3: [Kubernetes job for clickhouse\-copier](#pg-092d5c190f9504b9126ab5f7779a2089)

- 4: [Distributed table to ClickHouse® Cluster](#pg-775c97dd3622aad5380ef8cd9f7472ad)
- 5: [Fetch Alter Table](#pg-6b8cf3862e661a5ba53de12323896812)
- 6: [Remote table function](#pg-384352a945ec192141ea6fb13e0f518f)
- 7: [Moving ClickHouse to Another Server](#pg-69e50f36eba192534d9f891226a8196a)

## Export \& Import into common data formats

Pros:

- Data can be inserted into any DBMS.

Cons:

- Decoding \& encoding of common data formats may be slower / require more CPU
- The data size is usually bigger than ClickHouse® formats.
- Some of the common data formats have limitations.

#### Info

The best approach to do that is using clickhouse\-client, in that case, encoding/decoding of format happens client\-side, while client and server speak clickhouse Native format (columnar \& compressed).

In contrast: when you use HTTP protocol, the server do encoding/decoding and more data is passed between client and server.

## remote/remoteSecure or cluster/Distributed table

Pros:

- Simple to run.
- It’s possible to change the schema and distribution of data between shards.
- It’s possible to copy only some subset of data.
- Needs only access to ClickHouse TCP port.

Cons:

- Uses CPU / RAM (mostly on the receiver side)

See details of both approaches in:

[remote\-table\-function.md](http://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-data-migration/remote-table-function/)

[distributed\-table\-cluster.md](http://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-data-migration/distributed-table-cluster/)

## Manual parts moving: freeze / rsync / attach

Pros:

- Low CPU / RAM usage.

Cons:

- Table schema should be the same.
- A lot of manual operations/scripting.

#### Info

With some additional care and scripting, it’s possible to do cheap re\-sharding on parts level.See details in:

[rsync.md](http://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-data-migration/rsync/)

## clickhouse\-backup

Pros:

- Low CPU / RAM usage.
- Suitable to recover both schema \& data for all tables at once.

Cons:

- Table schema should be the same.

Just create the backup on server 1, upload it to server 2, and restore the backup.

See [https://github.com/Altinity/clickhouse\-backup](https://github.com/Altinity/clickhouse-backup)

[https://altinity.com/blog/introduction\-to\-clickhouse\-backups\-and\-clickhouse\-backup](https://altinity.com/blog/introduction-to-clickhouse-backups-and-clickhouse-backup)

## Fetch from zookeeper path

Pros:

- Low CPU / RAM usage.

Cons:
