---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: http://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-data-migration/remote-table-function/
topic: data-migration-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1453831.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 23
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

attach volumes (PVC) to a service pod. 2. **Initial data sync** Run a full recursive sync of the data directory from the old server to the new one: ``` rsync -ravlW --delete /var/lib/clickhouse/ user@new_host:/var/lib/clickhouse/ ``` Explanation of flags:

	- `r`: recursive, includes all subdirectories.
	- `a`: archive mode (preserves symlinks, permissions, timestamps, ownership, devices).
	- `v`: verbose, shows progress.
	- `l`: copy symlinks as symlinks.
	- `W`: copy whole files instead of using rsync’s delta algorithm (faster for large DB files).
	- –delete: remove files from the destination that don’t exist on the source.If you plan to run several replicas on a new cluster, rsync data to all of them. To save the performance of production servers, you can copy data to 1 new replica and then use it as a source for others. You can start with a single replica and add more after switching, but it will take more time afterward, as additional replicas need to pull all the data.

Add –bwlimit\=100000 to preserve the performance of the production cluster while copying a lot of data.

Consider shards as independent clusters.
3. **Incremental re\-syncs**

	- Repeat the `rsync` step multiple times while the old cluster is live.
	- Each subsequent run will copy only changes and reduce the final sync time.
4. **Restore replication metadata**

	- Start the new ClickHouse node(s).
	- Run `SYSTEM RESTORE REPLICA table_name` to rebuild replication metadata in ZooKeeper.
5. **Test the application**

	- Point your test environment to the new cluster.
	- Validate queries, schema consistency, and application behavior.
6. **Final sync and switchover**

	- Stop ClickHouse on the old cluster.
	- Immediately run a final incremental `rsync` to catch last\-minute changes.
	- Reinitialize ZooKeeper/Keeper database (stop/clear snapshots/start).
	- Run `SYSTEM RESTORE REPLICA table_name` to rebuild replication metadata in ZooKeeper again.
	- Start ClickHouse on the new cluster and switch production traffic.
	- add more replicas as needed

NOTES:

1. To restore metadata on all cluster nodes by a single command, use `ON CLUSTER` modifier for the RESTORE REPLICA command.
2. You can build a script to run restore replica commands over all replicated tables by query:
