---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/hash-functions
topic: hash-tables-in-clickhouse-and-c-zero-cost-abstractions
ch_version_introduced: '23.4'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

a certain key that we want to insert, hash this using a hash function, and compute a position for insertion into an array using the remainder from the division of the array's length. ## Hash table design [\#](/blog/hash-tables-in-clickhouse-and-zero-cost-abstractions#hash-table-design)

Hash tables require many design decisions at different levels and are subtly very complex data structures. Each of these design decisions has important implications for the hash table on its own but there are also ramifications from the way multiple design decisions play together. Mistakes during the design phase can make your implementation inefficient and appreciably slow down performance. A hash table consists of a hash function, a collision resolution method, a resizing policy, and various possibilities for arranging its cells in memory.

### Choosing a Hash Function [\#](/blog/hash-tables-in-clickhouse-and-zero-cost-abstractions#choosing-a-hash-function)

Let's start by choosing a hash function. This is a very important design decision where many people often make a mistake due to the [number of potential choices](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/hash-functions), all of which appear to produce equally good random values. We'll outline the main problems with this decision\-making process.

First of all, for integer types, it is quite common for many people to use the identity hash function. This is wrong as the distribution of real data is not the same, and you will have a high number of collisions. Furthermore, some hash functions are optimized for integers, use them instead of general\-purpose hash functions if your data allows it. Also, do not use various cryptographic hash functions unless you expect to be attacked since these are more computationally expensive. For example, suppose you use the cryptographic Sip Hash function with a throughput of around 1 GB/s vs. the City Hash function at about 10 GB/s. This means that the throughput of your table will be limited to 1 GB/s.

Also, don't use legacy hash functions like FNV1a because they are slow and provide poor distribution relative to competitors. This specific hash function is used in the GCC standard library and is deprecated. The [SMHasher repository](https://github.com/rurban/smhasher) on GitHub contains tests of various hash functions and shows that FNV1a fails to pass any serious testing.
