---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/hash-functions
topic: hash-tables-in-clickhouse-and-c-zero-cost-abstractions
ch_version_introduced: '23.4'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

look at numbers that confirm the higher cost of accessing main memory vs. L1 or L2 caches. We can assume that in order for a hash table to work at maximum speed, it must optimize for cache locality.

Let's take a slightly different benchmark, in which all data goes into caches. In this case, we see that `std::unordered_map` doesn't slow down as much anymore. In thise case, we use a `RegionID` column which has repeating values from a set of 9040 unique values which fit into Lx caches.

| Hashtable | Time (secs) |
| --- | --- |
| ClickHouse HashMap | 0\.201s |
| Google DenseMap | 0\.261s |
| Abseil HashMap | 0\.307s |
| std::unordered\_map | 0\.466s |





## C\+\+ hash table design [\#](/blog/hash-tables-in-clickhouse-and-zero-cost-abstractions#c-hash-table-design)

So far, we have focused on the algorithmic design of the solution. But for all this to work well, we need to develop a flexible and powerful C \+\+ wrapper.

Our hash table wrapper utilizes a policy\-based design, i.e. each design choice becomes a separate part of the hash table's interface. The main interfaces are the hash function, the allocator, the cell (which is an important element in our table), the grower (the interface for the resize policy), and the hash table itself, which combines all these components together.

Let's start with the hash function. This is the same interface as `std::hash` introduced in C\+\+11, nothing new.

```
template <typename T>
struct Hash {
    size_t operator () (T key) const 
    { 
        return DefaultHash<T>(key);
    }
};

```

The allocator is a slightly modified interface of the standard library allocator since our version supports `realloc`. Why do we need `realloc`? On Linux, we use `mmap` and `mremap` for large hash tables. To support this, we need to provide a `realloc` method in our interface.

The folowing allocator uses `mmap` and `mremap` for large memory blocks.

```
class Allocator
{
    void * alloc(size_t size, size_t alignment);
    void free(void * buf, size_t size);
    void * realloc(void * buf, size t old size, size_t new size);
};

```

There is also an allocator that allocates memory on the stack from the beginning when we use a custom policy for it.

```
AllocatorWithStackMemory<HashTableAllocator, initialbytes>

```
