---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/hash-functions
topic: hash-tables-in-clickhouse-and-c-zero-cost-abstractions
ch_version_introduced: '23.4'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

next and previous element in the cell is enough for us to create an intrusive list on the top of the cells. ``` using LRUList = boost:: intrusive:: list < Cell, boost::intrusive::value_traits<LRUHashMapCellIntrusiveValueTraits>, boost::intrusive::constant_time_size<false> >; LRUList ru_list ; ```

We have several specialized hash tables for various scenarios. For example, small table is a hash table, which is an array. How can it be useful? It is placed in the L1 cache and it implements the hash table interface. This is useful if we need to implement a simple algorithm.

```
template <typename Key, typename Cell, size_t capacity> 
class SmallTable : protected Cell:: State 
{

    size_t m_size = 0; 
    Cell buf[capacity];
    ...
}

```

We also have a more interesting hash table \- [the string hash table](https://www.mdpi.com/2076-3417/10/6/1915). It was contributed to us by a graduate student from China. These are four hash tables for strings of different lengths, for which we use different hash functions. More specifically, this hash table consists of 4 hash\-tables:

- for strings 0\-8 bytes in size
- for strings 9\-16 bytes in size
- for strings 17\-24 bytes in size
- for strings bigger than 24 bytes

Another very interesting hash table is a two\-level hash table. It consists of 256 hash tables. Why might this be necessary if you are not a fan of hash tables? When we, for example, do a GROUP BY operation, we want to do it in multiple threads. Therefore, we need to populate the tables and then merge them. We could use lock\-free hash tables, but no one on our team likes lock\-free, so we use two level hash tables.

This works by creating two level hash tables in each thread. For example, we get a matrix of 256 columns (tables) and four rows (streams) if we have four streams. We are inserting data into one of these tables. For example, we make the distribution according to such a formula, as shown below. Then, when we need to join tables, we use minimal synchronization and join them by columns. In the end, nothing slows down here.

```
size_t getBucketFromHash(size_t hash_value) {

    return (hash_value >> (32 - BITS_FOR_BUCKET)) & MAX_BUCKET;

}

```
