---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: how-we-rebuilt-the-cloud-console-while-running-it
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

Cloud platforms are an interesting beast. You can never really design them with one user in mind. While a lot could be written about the various user personas, for the purposes of this post we'll keep it simple.

First and foremost, there are admin\-type users who require a 100ft view of all systems and the ability to manage their user's permissions and security access, as well as monitor their usage and billing information. These users might only spend 1\-5 hours *per month* in any given Cloud interface, but when they need to locate information and complete tasks, speed and ease\-of\-access are hard requirements.

Second up, we have analyst\-type users, who are likely to: view, create, and run queries; import and export large amounts of data; start, stop, and resize ClickHouse services; and share their findings (queries and visualizations) with others. Unlike the Admin user, the Analyst may spend many hours per day in the Cloud interface. They need a comfortable, predictable environment to help immerse themselves in their work.

Third and most important, we have developers. For developers, a Cloud interface (specifically a Cloud database interface in this case) primarily serves as a source of truth for their data. For example \- does the data exist in table(s), what volume of data is stored, are queries properly optimized, etc.) and a centralized place to create, modify, and monitor ingestion/consumption services.

Suffice to say, each of these user personas represent entirely different patterns of usage, different focuses, and likely differing sets of criteria when judging the quality of our hypothetical new Cloud interface experience. Designing something with all three in mind was going to be tricky.

### Our meta\-level design principles [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-console-rebuilt#our-meta-level-design-principles)
