---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: how-we-rebuilt-the-cloud-console-while-running-it
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

usage, different focuses, and likely differing sets of criteria when judging the quality of our hypothetical new Cloud interface experience. Designing something with all three in mind was going to be tricky. ### Our meta\-level design principles [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-console-rebuilt#our-meta-level-design-principles)

Whenever you're working with complex systems and a dense amount of data, it's important that it doesn't *feel* like you're working with complex systems and a dense amount of data. For this reason, we knew that aesthetically, we needed to take this in a clean and light direction. The UI chrome had to be minimal, providing only the most important information in a contextual manner. We opted for clarity and consistency in our approach. Predictability really is the key to any successful user interface—if a user knows what's going to happen next when they perform an operation, they’ll quickly grow to trust and appreciate your application.

As mentioned, we have users who spend multiple hours a day in our Cloud interface. Anywhere you invest such a significant portion of your day has to be comfortable. Comfortability and customizability go hand\-in\-hand, so we made sure that this new iteration of ClickHouse Cloud was designed in a very modular fashion—one that would allow us to easily switch out colors to create multiple themes.

This was all great in concept, but now we actually needed to build the darn thing.

### This sounds pretty doable; what’s the catch? [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-console-rebuilt#this-sounds-pretty-doable-whats-the-catch)

There was one slight hiccup on the path towards our agreed vision; it would require us to merge two large codebases into one, but more challenging still, our legacy Cloud Console is written in Angular whereas the SQL Console utilizes React. In other words, the two applications were written in diametrically\-opposing JS frontend frameworks (or more accurately, a framework and a library).

After some spirited debate, we agreed that migrating the legacy Cloud Console Angular application over to React was the best course of action. There is plenty of literature comparing and contrasting the two, and since our choice of one versus the other is not significant to the story here, we’ll spare everyone the debate blow\-by\-blow. Suffice to say, however, that anyone familiar with both React and Angular is likely to find our decision understandable (at minimum).
