---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: how-we-rebuilt-the-cloud-console-while-running-it
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

is still ongoing, and consequently, we still haven’t found the perfect balance. Obviously, though, if you had to build a design system for a very mature application, you might understandably lean more toward consistency and ease of use.

Attempting to thread this needle, then, we’ve employed a hybrid approach, wherein we implement internal components with flexible interfaces that can be reused to build external components with more restrictive (and cleaner) interfaces. This means that developers can effectively choose their own adventures — we provide both flexible primitives and ready\-to\-go building blocks.

### Development and Testing [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-console-rebuilt#development-and-testing)

Since the beginning, we decided to settle on [storybook](http://storybook.js.org) as the tool for documenting and visually testing our components.

Storybook offers a great user experience in demoing single components and showing how to use them with all their properties. It also offers support for visual testing through an easy\-to\-set\-up integration for github. Each time a new PR is open, a set of checks are run against existing components. In case new changes are found, you can compare the look of the new components with the existing ones and decide whether to accept or decline the new changes.

This approach's limitation is that as the number of variations of each component grows, the number of visual tests needed to check each possible combination of the component grows exponentially.

We also opted to use [Vercel](http://vercel.com) because it offers incredibly easy deployments for Storybook\-generated applications and auto\-generates preview environments for each new PR that is open. This feature is extremely helpful for facilitating the interaction between designers and developers, and the former can easily go to the generated link and check the latest modifications without having to manually deploy the changes on their local machine.

## Implementing the Unified Console [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-console-rebuilt#implementing-the-unified-console)

At this stage we had a large set of designs, and we had a good amount of the components prebuilt thanks to Click UI, so now it was all about putting it together.

### The plan [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-console-rebuilt#the-plan)
