---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: how-we-rebuilt-the-cloud-console-while-running-it
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

inverted. Instead, we elected to complete both phases of the migration and then utilize a feature flag to incrementally rollout the fully\-integrated experience to users over a period of weeks. This plan also posed a couple of challenges:

- **Net\-new feature development** — while the migration was underway, we delayed new feature work as much as possible. Some critical features, however, could not be postponed, and thus needed to be implemented in both the legacy Angular and new React applications. Double\-work aside, this meant that completing some page migrations felt like trying to hit a moving target.
- **Two experiences, one application** — Because the new console experience is effectively built on\-top of the existing legacy SQL console application, we had to simultaneously maintain two versions of the same application, each with slightly different layouts, routing mechanisms, and themes. As we inched closer and closer to completing the migration, an increasing number of regressions began appearing in the legacy SQL console during release testing (and occasionally in Production as well). Maintaining stability across both experiences became increasingly difficult.

### Rollout and Beyond [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-console-rebuilt#rollout-and-beyond)

Unsurprisingly, rolling out an entirely new experience to tens\-of\-thousands of existing users — many of whom are paying customers — is not trivial. In an ideal world, we would have maintained both experiences for several months and offered existing users the option to transition away from the legacy console. However, largely because of the challenges described above, maintaining both applications was not going to be a viable option — especially given that our team comprises only a handful of engineers. In other words, we needed to rip the band\-aid off relatively quickly so that the team could resume work on other important feature work.

After roughly a month of testing and iteration during private preview, we felt confident enough in the new Cloud Console to begin rolling it out globally. Our plan was to initially rollout to 20%, incrementing upwards for 2\-3 weeks until we reached 100% (assuming no issues arose). Inevitably, a couple of UX\-related requirements complicated this plan:
