---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/operators/in.md)#
topic: in-operators-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.807696'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

the algorithms described below may work differently depending on the [settings](/docs/operations/settings/settings) `distributed_product_mode` setting. When using the regular `IN`, the query is sent to remote servers, and each of them runs the subqueries in the `IN` or `JOIN` clause.

When using `GLOBAL IN` / `GLOBAL JOIN`, first all the subqueries are run for `GLOBAL IN` / `GLOBAL JOIN`, and the results are collected in temporary tables. Then the temporary tables are sent to each remote server, where the queries are run using this temporary data.

For `GLOBAL ... JOIN`, which side of the join is calculated as the subquery depends on the join kind: for `LEFT` and `INNER` joins, the right table is calculated; for `RIGHT` joins, the left table is calculated instead, since the right table is the preserved side and should be read from shards.

For a non\-distributed query, use the regular `IN` / `JOIN`.

Be careful when using subqueries in the `IN` / `JOIN` clauses for distributed query processing.

Let's look at some examples. Assume that each server in the cluster has a normal **local\_table**. Each server also has a **distributed\_table** table with the **Distributed** type, which looks at all the servers in the cluster.

For a query to the **distributed\_table**, the query will be sent to all the remote servers and run on them using the **local\_table**.

For example, the query

```
SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM distributed_table

```

will be sent to all remote servers as

```
SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM local_table

```

and run on each of them in parallel, until it reaches the stage where intermediate results can be combined. Then the intermediate results will be returned to the requestor server and merged on it, and the final result will be sent to the client.

Now let's examine a query with `IN`:

```
SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM distributed_table WHERE CounterID = 101500 AND UserID IN (SELECT UserID FROM local_table WHERE CounterID = 34)

```

- Calculation of the intersection of audiences of two sites.

This query will be sent to all remote servers as

```
SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM local_table WHERE CounterID = 101500 AND UserID IN (SELECT UserID FROM local_table WHERE CounterID = 34)

```
