---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/operators/in.md)#
topic: in-operators-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.807696'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

the intersection of audiences of two sites. This query will be sent to all remote servers as ``` SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM local_table WHERE CounterID = 101500 AND UserID IN (SELECT UserID FROM local_table WHERE CounterID = 34) ```

In other words, the data set in the `IN` clause will be collected on each server independently, only across the data that is stored locally on each of the servers.

This will work correctly and optimally if you are prepared for this case and have spread data across the cluster servers such that the data for a single UserID resides entirely on a single server. In this case, all the necessary data will be available locally on each server. Otherwise, the result will be inaccurate. We refer to this variation of the query as "local IN".

To correct how the query works when data is spread randomly across the cluster servers, you could specify **distributed\_table** inside a subquery. The query would look like this:

```
SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM distributed_table WHERE CounterID = 101500 AND UserID IN (SELECT UserID FROM distributed_table WHERE CounterID = 34)

```

This query will be sent to all remote servers as

```
SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM local_table WHERE CounterID = 101500 AND UserID IN (SELECT UserID FROM distributed_table WHERE CounterID = 34)

```

The subquery will begin running on each remote server. Since the subquery uses a distributed table, the subquery that is on each remote server will be resent to every remote server as:

```
SELECT UserID FROM local_table WHERE CounterID = 34

```

For example, if you have a cluster of 100 servers, executing the entire query will require 10,000 elementary requests, which is generally considered unacceptable.

In such cases, you should always use `GLOBAL IN` instead of `IN`. Let's look at how it works for the query:

```
SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM distributed_table WHERE CounterID = 101500 AND UserID GLOBAL IN (SELECT UserID FROM distributed_table WHERE CounterID = 34)

```

The requestor server will run the subquery:

```
SELECT UserID FROM distributed_table WHERE CounterID = 34

```

and the result will be put in a temporary table in RAM. Then the request will be sent to each remote server as:

```
SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM local_table WHERE CounterID = 101500 AND UserID GLOBAL IN _data1

```
