---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/operators/in.md)#
topic: in-operators-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.807696'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

and the result will be put in a temporary table in RAM. Then the request will be sent to each remote server as: ``` SELECT uniq(UserID) FROM local_table WHERE CounterID = 101500 AND UserID GLOBAL IN _data1 ```

The temporary table `_data1` will be sent to every remote server with the query (the name of the temporary table is implementation\-defined).

This is more optimal than using the normal `IN`. However, keep the following points in mind:

1. When creating a temporary table, data is not made unique. To reduce the volume of data transmitted over the network, specify DISTINCT in the subquery. (You do not need to do this for a normal `IN`.)
2. The temporary table will be sent to all the remote servers. Transmission does not account for network topology. For example, if 10 remote servers reside in a datacenter that is very remote in relation to the requestor server, the data will be sent 10 times over the channel to the remote datacenter. Try to avoid large data sets when using `GLOBAL IN`.
3. When transmitting data to remote servers, restrictions on network bandwidth are not configurable. You might overload the network.
4. Try to distribute data across servers so that you do not need to use `GLOBAL IN` on a regular basis.
5. If you need to use `GLOBAL IN` often, plan the location of the ClickHouse cluster so that a single group of replicas resides in no more than one data center with a fast network between them, so that a query can be processed entirely within a single data center.

It also makes sense to specify a local table in the `GLOBAL IN` clause, in case this local table is only available on the requestor server and you want to use data from it on remote servers.

### Distributed Subqueries and max\_rows\_in\_set[​](#distributed-subqueries-and-max_rows_in_set "Direct link to Distributed Subqueries and max_rows_in_set")

You can use [`max_rows_in_set`](/docs/operations/settings/settings#max_rows_in_set) and [`max_bytes_in_set`](/docs/operations/settings/settings#max_bytes_in_set) to control how much data is transferred during distributed queries.

This is specially important if the `GLOBAL IN` query returns a large amount of data. Consider the following SQL:

```
SELECT * FROM table1 WHERE col1 GLOBAL IN (SELECT col1 FROM table2 WHERE <some_predicate>)

```
