---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single_instruction,_multiple_data
topic: cpu-dispatch-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '10.1002'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 12
---

a, int64_t * __restrict b, int64_t * __restrict c, size_t size) { if (hasAVX512()) { plusAVX512(a, b, c, size); } else if (hasAVX2()) { plusAVX2(a, b, c, size); } else { plusDefault(a, b, c, size); } } ```

In this example, we created a plus function that dispatches to a concrete implementation based on the available instruction set. Such a CPU dispatch method is also called dispatch on each call. There are other methods that you can read about in [Agner Fog Optimizing software in C\+\+: An optimization guide for Windows, Linux and Mac platforms. 13\.1 CPU dispatch strategies](https://www.agner.org/optimize/).

Dispatch on each call is the most flexible method because it will allow you to work with template functions and class member functions, or choose an implementation based on some statistics collected in runtime. The only downside is branching, although this overhead is negligible if your function performs a lot of work.

## CPU Dispatch Optimization Places [\#](/blog/cpu-dispatch-in-clickhouse#cpu-dispatch-optimization-places)

Now how to find places where SIMD optimizations can be applied?

1. If you know what loops are hot in your program, you can try to apply CPU dispatch for them.
2. If you have performance tests, you can compile your program with AVX, AVX2, AVX\-512 and compare performance reports to figure out which places can be optimized in your program using CPU dispatch.

This technique with performance tests can be applied not only to CPU dispatch but to many other useful optimizations. The main idea is to compile your code with different configurations (compilers, compiler options, libraries, allocators), and if there is a performance improvement in some places you can manually optimize them. For example:

1. Try different allocators and different libraries.
2. Try different compiler options (loop unrolling, inline threshold).
3. Enable AVX/AVX2/AVX\-512 for build.

## CPU Dispatch in ClickHouse [\#](/blog/cpu-dispatch-in-clickhouse#cpu-dispatch-in-clickhouse)

> We would like to recognize the efforts of Dmitriy Kovalkov who added the [CPU dispatching framework to ClickHouse](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/10058). It served as a basis for the subsequent work described in this article.

First, I want to show how we designed our dispatch framework in ClickHouse.
