---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/AndyMarshall86/status/1931993645378658533
topic: analyzing-wimbledon-tennis-data-with-chdb
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

match is best of 3 or best of 5 sets, which means you need to win 2 or 3 sets to win. In Grand Slam events, women’s matches are best of 3, and men’s are best of 5\.

The first player to reach six games wins the set. But if both players get to 5, you must get to 7 to win the set. If both players get to 6, they will play a tiebreak. The tiebreak will be the first to win 7 points unless it’s the final set, in which case it will be first to 10 points. And in both cases, you need to win by two clear points.

Now we get to the slightly trickier bit: the scoring of a game!

Each game starts at 0–0, and one player serves. The score goes up like this:

- First point: 15
- Second point: 30
- Third point: 40

Win the next point after 40, and you win the game \- but only if you're ahead by two points.

**What Happens at 40–40 (Deuce)?**  

If both players reach 40, that’s called deuce. From deuce, you need to win two points in a row to win the game:

- Win one point → you have Advantage (Ad).
- Win the next → you win the game.
- Lose the next → back to deuce.

This can go back and forth several times until someone wins two consecutive points from deuce.

## A brief introduction to clickhouse\-local [\#](/blog/analyzing-wimbledon-2025-chdb#a-brief-introduction-to-clickhouse-local)

Now we know how the scoring works, it’s time to start building something in ClickHouse. ClickHouse is best known for ClickHouse Server, which runs in the standard client/server architecture.

But running a server and connecting with a client seems like too much work when working on a project like this! Luckily, we can use clickhouse\-local, a standalone command\-line tool that provides the full functionality of ClickHouse without requiring you to run a server instance.

We download ClickHouse as usual:

```

```
1curl https://clickhouse.com  | sh
```

```

And then launch clickhouse\-local:

```

```
1./clickhouse -mn --path wimbledon.chdb
```

```

We’ll provide the `path` parameter so that any data we insert will be persisted to our local disk.

## Writing a function to compute the points needed to win a tennis game [\#](/blog/analyzing-wimbledon-2025-chdb#writing-a-function-to-compute-the-points-needed-to-win-a-tennis-game)
