---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/AndyMarshall86/status/1931993645378658533
topic: analyzing-wimbledon-tennis-data-with-chdb
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

7 ('0', '0'), ('0', '15'), ('0', '30'), 8 ('15', '30'), 9 ('30', '15'), 10 ('30', '40'), 11 ('40', '30'), 12 ('40', '40'), 13 ('AD', '40'), 14 ('0', '40'), ('15', '40'), ('30', '40'), 15 ('40', 'AD') 16); ``` ```

This wasn’t a problem for this function as it’s relatively simple, but as I wrote other functions, I kept introducing bugs as I tried to get them working for different scoring scenarios.

I needed to write some automated tests that I could run against my functions to ensure they worked.

## Testing user\-defined functions with chDB [\#](/blog/analyzing-wimbledon-2025-chdb#testing-user-defined-functions-with-chdb)

One way to do this is to switch to ClickHouse Server and write tests that execute the function via one of the ClickHouse client libraries.

Alternatively, we could use [chDB](https://clickhouse.com/docs/chdb), a fast in\-process SQL OLAP Engine powered by ClickHouse, with Python, Go, Rust, NodeJS, and Bun language support.

One of the cool things about chDB is that it [works with databases created with clickhouse\-local](https://clickhouse.com/docs/chdb/guides/clickhouse-local). It should be reasonably easy to get everything wired up.

There are few enough combinations of scores to test all of them. I’m not a guru regarding the fanciest Python testing frameworks, so I’m using good old pytest.

Below is a [parameterized test](https://docs.pytest.org/en/stable/how-to/parametrize.html) that I wrote to check that the `pointsToWinGame` function works:

```

```
1from chdb import session as chs
2import pytest
3
4sess = chs.Session("wimbledon.chdb")
5
6@pytest.mark.parametrize("p1,p2,expected", [
7  ("'0'", "'40'", 5),
8  ("'0'", "'0'", 4),
9  ("'0'", "'15'", 4),
10  ("'0'", "'30'", 4),
11  ("'15'", "'40'", 4),
12  ("'15'", "'15'", 3),  
13  ("'15'", "'30'", 3),
14  ("'30'", "'40'", 3),
15  ("'40'", "'AD'", 3),
16  ("'30'", "'30'", 2),
17  ("'40'", "'40'", 2),
18  ("'40'", "'30'", 1),
19  ("'40'", "'15'", 1),
20  ("'40'", "'0'", 1),
21  ("'AD'", "'40'", 1),
22  
23])
24def test_points_to_win_normal_game(p1, p2, expected):
25    result = sess.query(f"""
26    SELECT pointsToWinGame({p1}, {p2}) as points
27    """, "DataFrame")
28
29    assert result["points"].values[0] == expected
```

```

At the top of the script, we initialize our chDB database, which points to the `wimbledon.chdb` directory, which has all the functions loaded.

If we come further down, we can see that our test takes in three parameters:
