---
source: blog
url: https://dv2fzne24g.us-east-1.aws.clickhouse.cloud:8443>`
topic: introducing-warehouses-compute-compute-separation-in-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

to achieve if there are ad\-hoc queries in the database submitted by users directly or via BI tools. Such queries can be inefficient, contain mistakes that lead to huge resource consumption, and affect other queries in the database.

With compute\-compute separation, we can allocate dedicated compute resources to the most critical workload \- such as INSERT operations \- ensuring their performance remains unaffected by other queries. In some cases, specific read operations may be more critical than writes. In such scenarios, these operations are also assigned to separate compute resources, following the same underlying logic.

### 2\. Providing dedicated compute resources to different teams and functions [\#](/blog/introducing-warehouses-compute-compute-separation-in-clickhouse-cloud#2-providing-dedicated-compute-resources-to-different-teams-and-functions)

Large companies can have tens or hundreds of teams and departments accessing the same data in a database or a data warehouse. Some teams may require different performance levels when accessing the same data and prefer not to share compute resources with others, as shared resources can lead to inconsistent query performance.

Additionally, these teams often wish to separate their database usage costs for accountability and budgeting purposes.

In this scenario, compute\-compute separation provides multiple benefits:

- Isolating the workloads of different teams, so their queries do not impact each other’s performance.
- Providing different compute size and idling settings to each team, allowing them to choose the optimal compute size and cost that suits their specific needs.
- Providing separate billing for each team enabling clear visibility into the cost of their queries, especially if they have idling enabled.

### 3\. Providing different HA level for different workloads [\#](/blog/introducing-warehouses-compute-compute-separation-in-clickhouse-cloud#3-providing-different-ha-level-for-different-workloads)

Some workloads are extremely critical while others can tolerate lower uptime to reduce costs. For example:
