---
source: blog
url: https://dv2fzne24g.us-east-1.aws.clickhouse.cloud:8443>`
topic: introducing-warehouses-compute-compute-separation-in-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

the queries that caused them. ### Warehouses limitations [\#](/blog/introducing-warehouses-compute-compute-separation-in-clickhouse-cloud#warehouses-limitations) Though warehouses bring a lot of flexibility to ClickHouse Cloud, there are a few limitations that are presented in the current implementation and that we plan to remove later:

1. The first service in the warehouse should always be up and should not be idled. You cannot stop or idle the first service if there is at least one secondary service. Once all secondary services are removed, you can stop or idle the original service again.
2. As described, all read\-write services perform background merge operations. This means that there can be a situation where there is an INSERT query in Service 1, but the merge operation is completed by Service 2\. In short, this means that the workload from one RW service can affect the performance of another RW service. Note that read\-only services do not execute background merges, so they don't spend their resources on this operation. Consider using a single RW service for ingestion and transformations, and RO services for other needs.
3. Inserts in one read\-write service can prevent another read\-write service from idling if idling is enabled. Because of the previous point, a second service can perform background merge operations for the first service. These background operations can prevent the second service from going to sleep when idling. Once the background operations are finished, the service will be idled. Read\-only services are not affected and will be idled without delay.
4. CREATE/RENAME/DROP DATABASE queries could be blocked by idled/stopped services by default, causing these queries to not complete. To bypass this, you can run database management queries with the `setting distributed_ddl_task_timeout=0` at the session or query level. For example:

```

```
1create database db_test_ddl_single_query_setting
2settings distributed_ddl_task_timeout=0
```


```

### Customer feedback [\#](/blog/introducing-warehouses-compute-compute-separation-in-clickhouse-cloud#customer-feedback)

Before releasing warehouses, we launched a private preview program for a subset of our customers so they can test it in real production workloads. These are a few pieces of feedback from these users:
