---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/faq/general/why-clickhouse-is-so-fast
topic: asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '16.55'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

can be flushed with higher time granularity (with a higher async\_insert\_busy\_timeout\_ms setting) resulting in less resource usage for this data. #### Idempotent inserts [\#](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#idempotent-inserts) For tables in the [MergeTree engine](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family) family, ClickHouse automatically [deduplicates](https://clickhouse.com/blog/common-getting-started-issues-with-clickhouse#5-deduplication-at-insert-time) synchronous inserts by [default](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/settings/settings#insert_deduplicate).

For asynchronous inserts, deduplication can also be [enabled](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/settings/settings#async_insert_deduplicate).

This makes asynchronous inserts [idempotent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence), ensuring failure tolerance in cases like the following:

1. If the node containing the buffer crashes for some reason before the buffer got flushed, the insert query will time out (or get a more specific error) and not get an acknowledgment.
2. If the data got flushed, but the acknowledgment can’t be returned to the sender of the query because of network interruptions, the sender will either get a time\-out or a network error.

From the client's perspective 1\. and 2\. can be hard to distinguish. However, in both cases, the unacknowledged insert can just immediately be retried. As long as the retried insert query contains the same data in the same order, ClickHouse will automatically ignore the retried asynchronous insert if the (unacknowledged) original insert succeeded.

#### Insert errors can occur during buffer flush [\#](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#insert-errors-can-occur-during-buffer-flush)

Insert errors can happen when the buffer gets flushed: Also with asynchronous inserts, the `Too many parts` error can occur. For example, with a [poorly chosen partitioning key](https://clickhouse.com/blog/common-getting-started-issues-with-clickhouse#poorly-chosen-partitioning-key). Or the cluster node where the buffer flush takes place has some operational issues at the moment in time when the buffer flushes. Furthermore, the data from an asynchronous insert query is only parsed and validated against the target table's schema when the buffer gets flushed. If some row values from an insert query can’t be inserted because of parsing or type errors, then none of the data from that query is flushed (the flushing of data from other queries is unaffected by this). ClickHouse will write detailed error messages for insert errors during buffer flushes into log files and system tables. We will discuss later how clients can handle such errors.

### Asynchronous inserts vs. buffer tables [\#](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#asynchronous-inserts-vs-buffer-tables)

With the [buffer table engine](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/special/buffer), ClickHouse provides a data insert mechanism similar to asynchronous inserts. Buffer tables buffer the received data in the main memory and periodically flush it to a target table. There are major differences between buffer tables and asynchronous inserts, though:
