---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/faq/general/why-clickhouse-is-so-fast
topic: asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '16.55'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

provides a data insert mechanism similar to asynchronous inserts. Buffer tables buffer the received data in the main memory and periodically flush it to a target table. There are major differences between buffer tables and asynchronous inserts, though:

- Buffer tables need to be explicitly created (on each node in a multi\-node cluster) and connected to a target table. Asynchronous inserts can be switched on and off with a simple [setting](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#async-insert) change.
- Insert queries need to target the buffer table explicitly instead of the `real` target table. With asynchronous inserts, that is not the case.
- Buffer Tables require DDL changes whenever the target table's DDL changes. That is not required with asynchronous inserts.
- Data in the buffer table would be lost in a node crash, similar to asynchronous inserts in [fire and forget](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#fire-and-forget-return-behavior) mode. That is not the case for asynchronous inserts in [default](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#default-return-behavior) mode.
- As described [above](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#there-can-be-multiple-buffers), asynchronous inserts provide a buffer per insert query `shape` and settings even if all insert queries target the same table. Enabling granular data flush policies for different data within the same table. Buffer tables don’t have such a mechanism.

Generally, compared to buffer tables, from the client’s perspective, the buffering mechanism of asynchronous inserts is completely transparent and entirely managed by ClickHouse. Asynchronous inserts can be considered as a successor to buffer tables.

### Supported interfaces and clients [\#](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#supported-interfaces-and-clients)

Asynchronous inserts are supported by both the [HTTP](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/interfaces/http) and the [native](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/interfaces/tcp) interface, and popular clients like the Go client have either [direct](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/integrations/go#async-insert) support for asynchronous inserts or support them indirectly when [enabled](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/asynchronous-inserts#enabling-asynchronous-inserts) on the query setting or user setting, or connection setting level.

## Configuring the return behavior [\#](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#configuring-the-return-behavior)

You can choose when an asynchronous insert query returns to the sender of the query and when the acknowledgment of the insert takes place, respectively. Configurable via the [wait\_for\_async\_insert](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#wait-for-async-insert) setting:

- The default return behavior is that the insert query only returns to the sender after the next buffer flush occurs and the inserted data resides on disk, respectively.
- Alternatively, by setting the setting to `0`, the insert query returns immediately after the data just got inserted into the buffer. We call this the `fire and forget` mode in the following.
