---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/faq/general/why-clickhouse-is-so-fast
topic: asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '16.55'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

place, the buffer’s data is [sorted](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes#data-is-stored-on-disk-ordered-by-primary-key-columns) and written as one [or more](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#there-can-be-multiple-parts) data parts to the database storage. Before the buffer gets flushed, the data from other insert queries can be collected in the buffer. #### Advantage [\#](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#advantage)

An advantage of this mode is the very high ingest throughput (with minimal cluster resource utilization) that clients with a single\-threaded insert loop can achieve:

`1. Get the next batch of data  
2. Send insert query with the data to ClickHouse  
3. Immediately receive an acknowledgment that the insert got buffered  
4. Go to 1`

#### Disadvantages [\#](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#disadvantages)

However, this mode also comes with disadvantages:

1. **No durability guarantee**: Even when a client gets the acknowledgment for the insert query, that doesn’t necessarily mean that the query’s data is or will be written to database storage. An insert error can [occur](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#insert-errors-can-occur-during-buffer-flush) later during the buffer flush. And data loss can happen when a ClickHouse node crashes or is shut down before the next regular flush of the in\-memory buffers occurs. And worse, it can be silent data loss, as it is tricky for clients to find out about such events, as the original inserts into the buffers got successfully acknowledged. For a graceful shutdown of a ClickHouse node, there is a SYSTEM [command](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/49160) which flushes all asynchronous insert buffers. Additionally, a server\-side [setting](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/49160) determines whether to flush asynchronous insert buffers on graceful shutdown automatically.
2. **Insert errors are not returned**: When insert errors [occur](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#insert-errors-can-occur-during-buffer-flush) during buffer flush, the original insert into the buffer still got successfully acknowledged to the client. Clients can only discover these insert errors in hindsight by inspecting log files and [system tables](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-debugging-issues-with-system-tables). In a second post, we will provide guidance for that.
3. **Identifying failed data sets is complex**: In the case of the aforementioned silent insert errors, identifying such failed data sets is tricky and complex. ClickHouse doesn’t currently log these failed data sets anywhere. A dead\-letter queue for failed async inserts in `fire and forget` mode [could](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/46791) help to identify the data sets that couldn’t be inserted in hindsight.

Generally, asynchronous inserts in `fire-and-forget` mode, as the name suggests, should only be used in scenarios where data loss is acceptable.

### Benchmark [\#](/blog/asynchronous-data-inserts-in-clickhouse#benchmark-1)

We run two benchmarks.

Benchmark 1:  

`• 500 UpClick cloud function instances
