---
source: blog
url: https://www.meetup.com/pro/clickhouse
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-august-2022-airlines-are-maybe-not-that-bad
ch_version_introduced: '0.920'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

a try and report any issues. Take a look at the [release webinar slides](https://presentations.clickhouse.com/release_22.7/), the [recording](https://youtu.be/IOJyo14BpTQ) and please upgrade (unless you want to stay on an LTS release). **Query of the Month: Airlines are maybe not that bad**

Common wisdom has it that airlines are terrible and only getting worse. Extra charges for everything from bags to in\-flight water, seats that have less legroom every year \- and flight schedules that are so tightly packaged they lead to endless delays. The first two are certainly true, but what about the third? We can investigate with ClickHouse!

One of the example datasets in the ClickHouse documentation is [OnTime](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/ontime). It contains over 200 million records of many commercial flights in the US dating back to 1987\. Each record contains information about a flight including the date and time of the flight, departure and arrival airports, flight number, and much more. Importantly for us, there are fields showing how delayed the flight was (if at all) compared to its scheduled times.

We want to check if flight schedules are too tight and many planes get caught up in delays that then get worse throughout the day. For that, we need to isolate individual planes. Luckily, the dataset contains the tail number uniquely identifying a particular aircraft. Let’s play around with a few queries to get to know the data:

```
-- Total number of unique aircraft in the dataset
SELECT count(DISTINCT Tail_Number) FROM ontime

-- Number of unique tail numbers by year
SELECT Year, count(DISTINCT Tail_Number) count FROM ontime GROUP BY Year
ORDER BY count DESC

```

The first query shows that there are 18,531 distinct tail numbers in the dataset. Note, the total number of actual aircraft is going to be different \- planes can and do change tail numbers, for example, when changing carriers or countries of registration. This is also likely the reason why the second query shows an all\-time high of 7,768 unique tail numbers in the year 2002, much higher than the second\-highest value of 5,892 in 2019\. 2002 was a particularly bad year for the aviation industry and many planes likely changed owners.
