---
source: blog
url: https://www.meetup.com/pro/clickhouse
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-august-2022-airlines-are-maybe-not-that-bad
ch_version_introduced: '0.920'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

word or phrase, then went on to look at a product detail page, put it in their shopping cart and bought it. You could check sub\-sequences of the main sequence to see which step had the biggest drop\-off.

`sequenceMatch` is one of 1261 functions currently built into ClickHouse (`SELECT count() FROM system.functions`). Some are well\-known SQL functions (count, sum, avg, etc.) but many are specific to ClickHouse and I bet you don’t know all of them! It took me over six months to notice `sequenceMatch`. Have a look around the list of functions sometimes, chances are good you’ll learn something new.

Back to our dataset. We can use `sequenceMatch` to check how the delays of aircraft evolve during a day \- do they tend to get worse or do they get better? In the first query, we check how many planes that are delayed by more than 60 minutes subsequently become delayed by more than 90 minutes:

```
WITH (
	DepDelayMinutes > 60 AS delay,
	DepDelayMinutes > 90 AS longer_delay
)
SELECT sum(c) FROM (
	SELECT count() c FROM ontime
	WHERE match(Tail_Number, '^[A-Z]+[0-9]+[A-Z0-9]*$')
	GROUP BY FlightDate, Tail_Number
	HAVING sequenceMatch('(?1)(?2)')(toDateTime(DepTime), delay, longer_delay)
)

```

The result: 6,884,070\. What about the delay getting shorter, to less than 30 minutes:

```
WITH (
   DepDelayMinutes > 60 AS delay,
   DepDelayMinutes < 30 AS shorter_delay
)
SELECT sum(c) from (
   SELECT count() c FROM ontime
   WHERE match(Tail_Number, '^[A-Z]+[0-9]+[A-Z0-9]*$')
   GROUP BY FlightDate, Tail_Number
   HAVING sequenceMatch('(?1)(?2)')(toDateTime(DepTime), delay, shorter_delay)
)

```

The result here: 7,264,056\. Seems quite a few planes do actually catch up with their schedule over a day. Maybe not everything in the airline industry is as bad as we think. Then again, delays have been getting worse over the years, average delays today are about twice as long as they were in the 90s:

```
 SELECT Year, avg(DepDelayMinutes) FROM ontime GROUP BY Year ORDER BY Year DESC

```

Let’s end it here for today. And next time you’re stuck at an airport, fire up ClickHouse and explore!

**Reading Corner**

What we’ve been reading:
