---
source: blog
url: https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?date=today%205-y&q=hugging%20face&hl=en
topic: analyzing-hugging-face-datasets-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.220'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

Null\-hypothesis [\#](/blog/query-analyze-hugging-face-datasets-with-clickhouse#testing-the-null-hypothesis) Hypothesis testing is a fundamental concept in statistics and plays a crucial role in drawing inferences and making decisions. The null hypothesis is used to assess the validity of claims or research hypotheses, using sample data.

Using a subset of the overall data, we state that there is no significant difference in the population being studied. This is usually presented as a statement of equality, stating that two or more groups are equal, or that there is no relationship between variables.

Through a statistical test, we aim to determine whether there is enough evidence in the sample data to reject the null hypothesis in favor of an alternative hypothesis \- note, this alternative is not defined.

#### Student t\-tests [\#](/blog/query-analyze-hugging-face-datasets-with-clickhouse#student-t-tests)

To test a hypothesis we can use a student t\-test. This allows us to evaluate our null hypothesis that the means of the two populations are equal.

As an example, maybe we state:

*The explicit nature of music has no impact on whether it is danceable.*

More specifically,

*The mean danceability of explicit music is the same as non\-explicit music*

T\-testing makes an assumption the data is approximately normal and the variance is similar. This is particularly important on smaller result sizes (i.e. \< 30\). However, as shown earlier danceability does appear normal. Our variance is also similar, with a large sample size for our explicit music:

```
SELECT explicit, varPop(danceability), count() AS c
FROM spotify
GROUP BY explicit

┌─explicit─┬─varPop(danceability)─┬──────c─┐
│ false	│ 0.029643285945200746    │ 104253 │
│ true 	│ 0.029892924927367216    │   9747 │
└──────────┴──────────────────────┴────────┘

2 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.840 sec. Processed 77.00 thousand rows, 8.81 MB (91.69 thousand rows/s., 10.49 MB/s.)

```

With these properties satisfied, performing a t\-test in ClickHouse is simple:

```
SELECT studentTTest(danceability, explicit)
FROM spotify

┌─studentTTest(danceability, explicit)─┐
│ (-41.67680374902913,0)           	   │
└──────────────────────────────────────┘

1 row in set. Elapsed: 0.841 sec. Processed 2.00 thousand rows, 232.29 KB (2.38 thousand rows/s., 276.13 KB/s.)

```

The key value here is the 2nd value in our tuple, the p\-value. This is the probability of obtaining results as extreme as, or more extreme than, the observed results, assuming the null hypothesis is true.
