---
source: blog
url: https://trends.google.com/trends/explore?date=today%205-y&q=hugging%20face&hl=en
topic: analyzing-hugging-face-datasets-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.220'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

query, this should be negligible on queries for larger datasets dominated by the downloading and querying of files. The above can be simplified further using the url table engine. Below we create a table abstraction for the dataset.

```
CREATE TABLE spotify AS url(hf('maharshipandya/spotify-tracks-dataset'))

SELECT count() AS c, artists
FROM spotify
GROUP BY artists
ORDER BY c DESC
LIMIT 5

┌───c─┬─artists─────────┐
│ 279 │ The Beatles 	│
│ 271 │ George Jones	│
│ 236 │ Stevie Wonder   │
│ 224 │ Linkin Park 	│
│ 222 │ Ella Fitzgerald │
└─────┴─────────────────┘

5 rows in set. Elapsed: 1.367 sec. Processed 114.00 thousand rows, 13.05 MB (83.39 thousand rows/s., 9.55 MB/s.)

```

## Accelerating queries with local tables [\#](/blog/query-analyze-hugging-face-datasets-with-clickhouse#accelerating-queries-with-local-tables)

All of the previous queries relied on using the url function to download the Parquet file on each innovation. While this could be accelerated for common queries by simply downloading the file to the local filesystem and using the [file function](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/table-functions/file), thus avoiding the HTTP overhead for each query, performance will still be bounded by the Parquet format. Alternatively, if querying a dataset more frequently, users may want to create a local table within a clickhouse\-local session and insert the data. This table can then be queried directly, delivering significantly improved performance.

> This table differs from the previous example powered by the url table engine. In this case we insert the data into ClickHouse’s own internal format. The previous example was still backed by the Parquet file.

When defining a table, an engine must be defined. Users have two main choices here \- MergeTree or Memory. The former, while requiring the [definition of an ordering key](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes), will provide the most optimal performance on most queries and will not be bounded by memory for larger datasets. Below we insert the Spotify dataset into a table and repeat our earlier simple query.
