---
source: blog
url: https://gist.github.com/gingerwizard/5a9a87a39ba93b422d8640d811e269e9
topic: clickhouse-release-25-10
ch_version_introduced: '25.10'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

and filters involved. Until now, these statistics had to be created manually for each column. Starting with **25\.10**, ClickHouse can now **automatically create statistics** for all suitable columns in a MergeTree table using the new table\-level setting [auto\_statistics\_types](https://clickhouse.com/docs/operations/settings/merge-tree-settings#auto_statistics_types).

This setting defines which types of statistics to build (for example, `minmax`, `uniq`, `countmin`):

```

```
1CREATE TABLE tpch.orders (...) ORDER BY (o_orderkey)
2SETTINGS auto_statistics_types = 'minmax, uniq, countmin';
```

```

This enables statistics generation for all columns in the table automatically.

You can also configure it globally for all MergeTree tables in your server configuration:

```

```
1$ cat /etc/config.d/merge_tree.yaml
```

```

```

```
merge_tree:
    auto_statistics_types: 'minmax, uniq, countmin'
```

```

By keeping statistics up to date automatically, ClickHouse can make smarter join and filter decisions, improving query planning and reducing both memory use and runtime without manual tuning.

> These four features (**lazy columns replication**, **bloom filters in JOINs**, **push\-down of complex conditions**, and **automatic column statistics**) are the latest in a long line of JOIN optimizations in ClickHouse, and they won’t be the last.

## QBit data type [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-25-10#qbit-data-type)

### Contributed by Raufs Dunamalijevs [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-25-10#contributed-by-raufs-dunamalijevs)

QBit is a data type for vector embeddings that lets you tune search precision at runtime. It uses a bit\-sliced data layout where every number is sliced by bits, and at query time, we specify, how many (most significant) bits to take.

```

```
1CREATE TABLE vectors (
2    id UInt64, name String, ...
3    vec QBit(BFloat16, 1536)
4) ORDER BY ();
```

```

```

```
1SELECT id, name FROM vectors
2ORDER BY L2DistanceTransposed(vector, target, 10)
3LIMIT 10;
```

```

Raufs Dunamalijevs has written in detail about the QBit in the blog post ‘[We built a vector search engine that lets you choose precision at query time](https://clickhouse.com/blog/qbit-vector-search)’.

## SQL updates [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-25-10#sql-updates)

### Contributed by Nihal Z. Miaji, Surya Kant Ranjan, Simon Michal [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-25-10#contributed-by-nihal-z-miaji-surya-kant-ranjan-simon-michal)

The ClickHouse 25\.10 release sees several additions to the supported SQL syntax.

First up is general support for the `<=>` (IS NOT DISTINCT FROM) operator, which was previously only supported in the `JOIN ON` part of a query. This operator offers equality comparison that treats NULLs as identical. Let’s have a look at how it works:

```

```
1SELECT NULL <=> NULL, NULL = NULL;
```

```
