---
source: blog
url: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.12590
topic: trace-similarity-systems-on-top-of-clickhouse-to-analyze-crash-stack-traces-from-our-ci
ch_version_introduced: '2009.12590'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

[\#](/blog/trace-similarity-stack-traces#separate-collecting-and-analyzing-clusters-create-tables-for-analysis) To avoid the performance impact on the CI system, we are using a separate ClickHouse cluster to analyze the crash traces. The following tables and materialized view manage updating the data from the remote CI Logs cluster:

```

```
1-- Create a table to store the raw stack traces with details about where and when they were appeared
2CREATE TABLE default.stack_traces
3(
4    `repo` LowCardinality(String),
5    `pull_request_number` UInt32,
6    `commit_sha` String,
7    `check_name` String,
8    `check_start_time` DateTime('UTC'),
9    `event_time` DateTime,
10    `timestamp_ns` UInt64,
11    `trace_full` Array(String),
12    `Version` UInt32 DEFAULT now()
13)
14ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree(Version)
15PARTITION BY toYYYYMM(event_time)
16ORDER BY (event_time, timestamp_ns, repo, check_start_time)
17SETTINGS index_granularity = 8192;
18
19-- create a refresheable materialized view to collect the data from the crash_logs table for the last 100 days
20-- https://clickhouse.com/docs/materialized-view/refreshable-materialized-view
21CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW default._stack_traces_mv
22REFRESH EVERY 30 MINUTE TO default.stack_traces
23AS SELECT
24    repo,
25    pull_request_number,
26    commit_sha,
27    check_name,
28    check_start_time,
29    event_time,
30    timestamp_ns,
31    trace_full,
32    now() AS Version
33FROM remoteSecure('[HOST]', 'default', 'crash_logs', 'username', 'password')
34WHERE event_date >= today() - INTERVAL 100 DAY;
35
36-- Create a table to store the info about the GitHub issues created for the stack traces
37CREATE TABLE default.crash_issues
38(
39    `created_at` DateTime,
40    `updated_at` DateTime,
41    `closed_at` DateTime,
42    `repo` String,
43    `number` UInt32,
44    `state` Enum8('open' = 1, 'closed' = 2),
45    `stack_traces_full` Array(Array(String)),
46    `stack_traces_hash` Array(UInt64)
47)
48ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree(updated_at)
49PARTITION BY toYYYYMM(created_at)
50ORDER BY (repo, number)
51SETTINGS index_granularity = 8192;
```

```

From this point, we use data on this cluster. The data is refreshed every 30 minutes, ensuring that we have the latest crash events available for analysis.

### Step one: clean crash traces [\#](/blog/trace-similarity-stack-traces#step-one-clean-crash-traces)

Once the traces are on the separate cluster, we need to clean them up. The traces contain a lot of noise that can affect the similarity calculation. The noise can come from, but is not limited to:

- Different compiler versions.
- Different build configurations (e.g., debug vs release).
- Different environments (e.g., different OS, different hardware).
- Different file names and line numbers in the stack traces.

To clean the traces, we define two [User Defined Functions](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/functions/udf#sql-user-defined-functions):
