---
source: blog
url: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.12590
topic: trace-similarity-systems-on-top-of-clickhouse-to-analyze-crash-stack-traces-from-our-ci
ch_version_introduced: '2009.12590'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

versions. - Different build configurations (e.g., debug vs release). - Different environments (e.g., different OS, different hardware). - Different file names and line numbers in the stack traces. To clean the traces, we define two [User Defined Functions](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/functions/udf#sql-user-defined-functions):

```

```
1CREATE FUNCTION cleanStackFrame AS frame -> replaceRegexpOne(
2  replaceRegexpAll(
3    splitByString(
4      -- second, strip the file name and line number, keep the function name
5      ': ', splitByString(
6        -- first, strip the frame address, keep the frame number, file name, line number, and function name
7        ' @ ', frame, 2
8      )[1], 2
9    )[2],
10    -- third, replace all ABI specific information with a placeholder
11    '\\[abi:[^]]+\\]', '[$ABI]'),
12  -- finally, delete all LLVM specific information
13  '(\\s+[(])*[.]llvm[.].+', ''
14);
15
16CREATE FUNCTION cleanStackTrace AS trace -> arrayFilter(
17  frame -> (
18    -- second, keep only meaningful frames
19    frame NOT IN ('', '?')), arrayMap(
20      -- first, clean each frame of the stack trace
21      fr -> cleanStackFrame(fr), trace
22  )
23);
```

```

These functions will be used to clean the stack traces before calculating their similarity on the fly. The `cleanStackFrame` function removes the noise from each frame, and the `cleanStackTrace` function applies it to the whole stack trace.

There's a possibility of using these UDFs to pre\-process the data in the `stack_traces` table; however, we do it on the fly to avoid storing the pre\-cleaned traces in the database. It provides us with more flexibility, enabling us to modify the cleaning logic without reprocessing all the data. It's handy for calculating the weights of frames at the similarity calculation step.

### Step two: group identical traces and distinguish the significant ones among them [\#](/blog/trace-similarity-stack-traces#step-two-group-identical-traces-and-distinguish-the-significant-ones-among-them)

Once the stack traces are cleaned, we can start analyzing them. The already processed traces are in the `crash_issues` table; we use these to find the existing issues.
