---
source: blog
url: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.12590
topic: trace-similarity-systems-on-top-of-clickhouse-to-analyze-crash-stack-traces-from-our-ci
ch_version_introduced: '2009.12590'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

identical traces and distinguish the significant ones among them [\#](/blog/trace-similarity-stack-traces#step-two-group-identical-traces-and-distinguish-the-significant-ones-among-them) Once the stack traces are cleaned, we can start analyzing them. The already processed traces are in the `crash_issues` table; we use these to find the existing issues.

```

```
1WITH known_hashes AS
2    (
3        SELECT
4            repo,
5            -- Avoid default value of 'open' for state
6            toString(state) AS state,
7            updated_at,
8            closed_at,
9            arrayFlatten(groupArrayDistinct(stack_traces_hash)) AS known_hashes
10        FROM default.crash_issues FINAL
11        GROUP BY ALL
12    )
13SELECT
14    repo,
15    groupArrayDistinct((pull_request_number, commit_sha, check_name)) AS checks,
16    cleanStackTrace(trace_full) AS trace_full,
17    sipHash64(trace_full) AS trace_hash,
18    length(groupArrayDistinct(pull_request_number) AS PRs) AS trace_count,
19    has(PRs, 0) AS is_in_master
20FROM default.stack_traces AS st
21LEFT JOIN known_hashes AS kh ON (st.repo = kh.repo AND has(kh.known_hashes, trace_hash))
22WHERE (st.event_time >= (now() - toIntervalDay(30)))
23    AND (length(trace_full) > 5)
24GROUP BY
25    repo,
26    trace_full
27HAVING
28    groupArrayDistinct(kh.state) = [''] -- new trace, no issues
29    OR (groupArrayDistinct(kh.state) = ['closed'] AND max(st.check_start_time) > max(kh.closed_at)) -- new event after the issue is closed
30ORDER BY max(st.event_time)
```

```

This query groups the stack traces by their cleaned version and calculates the hash of the trace. The hashes are checked against the `crash_issues` table to find out if the trace is already known. If there is an open issue, or the trace is created before the existing issues were closed, it is considered a known trace.

The query also counts the number of unique pull requests that contain the trace and checks if the trace is present in the master branch (pull request number 0\). If the trace appears in fewer than three pull requests and wasn't seen in the master/release branches, it's considered insignificant. Such traces aren't used to create issues, but they can be added to existing issues if they are similar enough to the known traces.

### Step three: calculate similarity between traces [\#](/blog/trace-similarity-stack-traces#step-three-calculate-similarity-between-traces)

Now we have a list of new stack traces from step two. We need to compare them one by one to the known stack traces, linked to GitHub issues.

The following query is the [TraceSim's paper](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.12590) implementation of the similarity calculation. ClickHouse has `arraySimilarity` function since version [25\.4](https://clickhouse.com/docs/whats-new/changelog#254), the weights are calculated on the fly. The `new_trace` is one of the new traces from step two.
