---
source: blog
url: https://openmeter.io/)'s
topic: openmeter-how-we-learned-clickhouse-and-became-certified-clickhouse-developers
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

you for a wide range of challenges in data analytics. If that doesn't convince you, I have one last argument: ClickHouse is fun. It's easy to run locally, load in some data, and run analytical queries against it.

I highly recommend you give it a shot.

## How not to learn ClickHouse? [\#](/blog/how-to-learn-clickhouse-and-become-a-certified-clickhouse-developer#how-not-to-learn-clickhouse)

When I first encountered ClickHouse, I thought, "SQL, but column\-oriented. Gotcha…" Which put me on the wrong course first. While the familiar syntax helps initially, there are fundamental differences between ClickHouse and relational databases like Postgres. It's important to keep an open mind about these differences and prepare yourself to redefine some of the concepts you've learned and understood in other database management systems.

For example, primary keys, indices, and table alterations work differently in ClickHouse. Understanding these nuances is crucial for leveraging ClickHouse's full potential.

With that out, let's move on to how to get started with ClickHouse.

## How to get started? [\#](/blog/how-to-learn-clickhouse-and-become-a-certified-clickhouse-developer#how-to-get-started)

The ClickHouse team offers several resources to help you learn ClickHouse effectively.

The obvious starting point is the documentation, where you can read about the basic concepts. The documentation is excellent, and that's where I began my journey with ClickHouse. [ClickHouse training](https://clickhouse.com/learn) is another great resource I can't recommend enough.

ClickHouse offers two types of training:

1. **On\-Demand Training**: This allows you to learn at your own pace.
2. **Instructor\-Based, Live Training**: This provides a more interactive learning experience with a live instructor.

Both training options are free at the time of this writing.

Choose the one that better suits your learning style. I prefer tinkering with what I'm learning and taking the time to experiment, so I opted for the on\-demand training.

The on\-demand course consists of 12 modules. It starts by explaining the basic concepts of ClickHouse and walks you through everything you need to become an effective user. Each module includes a 15 to 30\-minute video lesson, followed by one or two hands\-on exercises, each taking about an hour.

It's been a while since I completed a training program like this, mostly because I often find it hard to stay engaged. However, I thoroughly enjoyed the ClickHouse training. It was easy to follow, and the explanations and examples provided by the instructor were beneficial.
