---
source: blog
url: https://openmeter.io/)'s
topic: openmeter-how-we-learned-clickhouse-and-became-certified-clickhouse-developers
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

a training program like this, mostly because I often find it hard to stay engaged. However, I thoroughly enjoyed the ClickHouse training. It was easy to follow, and the explanations and examples provided by the instructor were beneficial.

I recommend starting by exploring the documentation and then checking out the training. Twelve hours is not that much, especially given its value.

## Tips for completing the training [\#](/blog/how-to-learn-clickhouse-and-become-a-certified-clickhouse-developer#tips-for-completing-the-training)

### Use ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/how-to-learn-clickhouse-and-become-a-certified-clickhouse-developer#use-clickhouse-cloud)

The instructor recommends using [ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.cloud/) throughout the training, and I highly recommend the same. Although running ClickHouse locally is super easy, ClickHouse Cloud provides a few benefits that come in handy during the training.

First, the SQL console in ClickHouse Cloud is superior to the open\-source version. While you can use the CLI or any other GUI client, I found using the one in the Cloud easier. It also allows you to save your queries and revisit them later.

Some modules, especially those explaining sharding and replication, require more complex setups. While these setups are not impossible to achieve locally, they are probably not something you want to spend time on during your initial learning phase. Using the cloud, you get all that functionality without any additional effort.

ClickHouse offers a free trial that is more than enough to complete the training, so it doesn't cost you anything to get started.

### The documentation is your friend [\#](/blog/how-to-learn-clickhouse-and-become-a-certified-clickhouse-developer#the-documentation-is-your-friend)

The [documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs) was excellent and helpful during the training in multiple ways.

First, it provides additional information on the topics discussed in the training modules. After reviewing the documentation and reading the relevant sections, I found they were helpful in each lesson. Although the instructor gave excellent explanations, the additional context helped me better understand how ClickHouse works.

The documentation also proved helpful during the hands\-on labs. I'm slow at learning new syntaxes, so I kept the SQL reference open in a tab to quickly switch to it and search for the keyword or the function I needed to use.

### Take a break from time to time [\#](/blog/how-to-learn-clickhouse-and-become-a-certified-clickhouse-developer#take-a-break-from-time-to-time)

It might be tempting to grind through all twelve modules in one go. I did that with a few modules, which later proved wrong.
