---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/from.md)#
topic: from-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# FROM Clause \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Statements](/docs/sql-reference/statements)- [SELECT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select)- FROM
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/from.md)# FROM Clause

The `FROM` clause specifies the source to read data from:

- [Table](/docs/engines/table-engines)
- [Subquery](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select)
- [Table function](/docs/sql-reference/table-functions)

[JOIN](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/join) and [ARRAY JOIN](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/array-join) clauses may also be used to extend the functionality of the `FROM` clause.

Subquery is another `SELECT` query that may be specified in parenthesis inside `FROM` clause.

A SQL standard `VALUES` clause can also be used as a table expression:

```
SELECT * FROM (VALUES (1, 'a'), (2, 'b'), (3, 'c')) AS t(id, val);

```

See [Values table function](/docs/sql-reference/table-functions/values#sql-standard-values-clause) for more details.

The `FROM` can contain multiple data sources, separated by commas, which is equivalent of performing [CROSS JOIN](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/join) on them.

`FROM` can optionally appear before a `SELECT` clause. This is a ClickHouse\-specific extension of standard SQL which makes `SELECT` statements easier to read. Example:

```
FROM table
SELECT *

```

## FINAL Modifier[​](#final-modifier "Direct link to FINAL Modifier")

When `FINAL` is specified, ClickHouse fully merges the data before returning the result. This also performs all data transformations that happen during merges for the given table engine.

It is applicable when selecting data from tables using the following table engines:

- `ReplacingMergeTree`
- `SummingMergeTree`
- `AggregatingMergeTree`
- `CollapsingMergeTree`
- `VersionedCollapsingMergeTree`

`SELECT` queries with `FINAL` are executed in parallel. The [max\_final\_threads](/docs/operations/settings/settings#max_final_threads) setting limits the number of threads used.

### Drawbacks[​](#drawbacks "Direct link to Drawbacks")

Queries that use `FINAL` execute slightly slower than similar queries that do not use `FINAL` because:

- Data is merged during query execution.
- Queries with `FINAL` may read primary key columns in addition to the columns specified in the query.

`FINAL` requires additional compute and memory resources because the processing that normally would occur at merge time must occur in memory at the time of the query. However, using FINAL is sometimes necessary in order to produce accurate results (as data may not yet be fully merged). It is less expensive than running `OPTIMIZE` to force a merge.
