---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/from.md)#
topic: from-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

memory at the time of the query. However, using FINAL is sometimes necessary in order to produce accurate results (as data may not yet be fully merged). It is less expensive than running `OPTIMIZE` to force a merge.

As an alternative to using `FINAL`, it is sometimes possible to use different queries that assume the background processes of the `MergeTree` engine have not yet occurred and deal with it by applying an aggregation (for example, to discard duplicates). If you need to use `FINAL` in your queries in order to get the required results, it is okay to do so but be aware of the additional processing required.

`FINAL` can be applied automatically using [FINAL](/docs/operations/settings/settings#final) setting to all tables in a query using a session or a user profile.

### Example Usage[​](#example-usage "Direct link to Example Usage")

Using the `FINAL` keyword

```
SELECT x, y FROM mytable FINAL WHERE x > 1;

```

Using `FINAL` as a query\-level setting

```
SELECT x, y FROM mytable WHERE x > 1 SETTINGS final = 1;

```

Using `FINAL` as a session\-level setting

```
SET final = 1;
SELECT x, y FROM mytable WHERE x > 1;

```

## Implementation Details[​](#implementation-details "Direct link to Implementation Details")

If the `FROM` clause is omitted, data will be read from the `system.one` table.
The `system.one` table contains exactly one row (this table fulfills the same purpose as the DUAL table found in other DBMSs).

To execute a query, all the columns listed in the query are extracted from the appropriate table. Any columns not needed for the external query are thrown out of the subqueries.
If a query does not list any columns (for example, `SELECT count() FROM t`), some column is extracted from the table anyway (the smallest one is preferred), in order to calculate the number of rows.

[PreviousFORMAT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/format)[NextGROUP BY](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/group-by)- [FINAL Modifier](#final-modifier)
	- [Drawbacks](#drawbacks)- [Example Usage](#example-usage)- [Implementation Details](#implementation-details)
Was this page helpful?
