---
source: blog
url: https://metrica.yandex.com/
topic: evolution-of-data-structures-in-yandex-metrica
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

table, data from different counters is also placed quite randomly. This means that to read the data report, you will need to perform about as many random reads as there are rows that we need in the table.

A typical 7200 rpm hard disk can perform 100 to 200 random reads per second. A RAID, if used properly, can handle the same amount multiplied by number of disks in it. One five\-year\-old SSD can perform 30,000 random reads per second, but we cannot afford to keep our data on SSD. So in this case, if we needed to read 10,000 rows for a report, it would take more than 10 seconds, which would be totally unacceptable.

InnoDB is much better suited to reading primary key ranges since it uses [a clustered primary key](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Database_index#Clustered) (i.e., the data is stored in an orderly manner on the primary key). But InnoDB was impossible to use due to its slow write speed. If this reminds you of [TokuDB](https://www.percona.com/software/mysql-database/percona-tokudb), then read on.

It took a lot of tricks like periodic table sorting, complicated manual partitioning schemes, and keeping data in generations to keep Yandex.Metrica working on MyISAM. This approach also had a lot of lot of operational drawbacks, for example slow replication, consistency, unreliable recovery, etc. Nevertheless, as of 2011, we stored more than 580 billion rows in MyISAM tables.

## Metrage and OLAPServer [\#](/blog/evolution-of-data-structures-in-yandexmetrica#metrage-and-olapserver)

Metrage is an implementation of [LSM Tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Log-structured_merge-tree), a fairly common data structure that works well for workloads with intensive stream of writes and mostly primary key reads, like Yandex.Metrica has. LevelDB did not exist in 2010 and TokuDB was proprietary at the time.
