---
source: blog
url: https://metrica.yandex.com/
topic: evolution-of-data-structures-in-yandex-metrica
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

the one hand, pre\-aggregating data can reduce the volume of data that is used at the moment when the report page is loading. On the other hand, though, aggregated data doesn't solve everything. Here are the reasons why:

- you need to have a list of reports that your users need ahead of time; in other words, the user can't put together a custom report
- when aggregating a lot of keys, the amount of data is not reduced and aggregation is useless; when there are a lot of reports, there are too many aggregation options (combinatorial explosion)
- when aggregating high cardinality keys (for example, URLs) the amount of data does not decrease by much (by less than half)
due to this, the amount of data may not be reduced, but actually grow during aggregation
- users won't view all the reports that we calculate for them (in other words, a lot of the calculations prove useless)
- it's difficult to maintain logical consistency when storing a large number of different aggregations

As you can see, if nothing is aggregated and we work with non\-aggregated data, then it's possible that the volume of computations will even be reduced. But only working with non\-aggregated data imposes very high demands on the effectiveness of the system that executes the queries.

So if we aggregate the data in advance, then we should do it constantly (in real time), but asynchronously with respect to user queries. We should really just aggregate the data in real time; a large portion of the report being received should consist of prepared data.

If data is not aggregated in advance, all the work has to be done at the moment the user request it (i.e. while they wait for the report page to load). This means that many billions of rows need to be processed in response to the user's query; the quicker this can be done, the better.

For this you need a good column\-oriented DBMS. The market didn‘t have any column\-oriented DBMS's that would handle internet\-analytics tasks on the scale of Runet (the Russian internet) well enough and would not be prohibitively expensive to license.
