---
source: blog
url: https://metrica.yandex.com/
topic: evolution-of-data-structures-in-yandex-metrica
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

For this you need a good column\-oriented DBMS. The market didn‘t have any column\-oriented DBMS's that would handle internet\-analytics tasks on the scale of Runet (the Russian internet) well enough and would not be prohibitively expensive to license.

Recently, as an alternative to commercial column\-oriented DBMS's, solutions for efficient ad\-hoc analytics of data in distributed computing systems began appearing: Cloudera Impala, Spark SQL, Presto, and Apache Drill. Although such systems can work effectively with queries for internal analytical tasks, it is difficult to imagine them as the backend for the web interface of an analytical system accessible to external users.

At Yandex, we developed and later opensourced our own column\-oriented DBMS — ClickHouse. Let's review the basic requirements that we had in mind before we proceeded to development.

**Ability to work with large datasets.** In current Yandex.Metrica for websites, ClickHouse is used to store all data for reports. As of November, 2016, the database is comprised of 18\.3 trillion rows. It‘s made up of non\-aggregated data that is used to retrieve reports in real\-time. Every row in the largest table contains over 200 columns.

**The system should scale linearly.** ClickHouse allows you to increase the size of cluster by adding new servers as needed. For example, Yandex.Metrica's main cluster has increased from 60 to 426 servers in three years. In the aim of fault tolerance, our servers are spread across different data centers. ClickHouse can use all hardware resources to process a single query. This way more than 2 terabyte can be processed per second.

**High efficiency.** We especially pride ourselves on our database's high performance. Based on the results of internal tests, ClickHouse processes queries faster than any other system we could acquire. For example, ClickHouse works an average of 2\.8\-3\.4 times faster than Vertica. With ClickHouse there is no one silver bullet that makes the system work so quickly.

**Functionality should be sufficient for Web analytics tools.** The database supports the SQL language dialect, subqueries and JOINs (local and distributed). There are numerous SQL extensions: functions for web analytics, arrays and nested data structures, higher\-order functions, aggregate functions for approximate calculations using sketching, etc. By working with ClickHouse, you get the convenience of a relational DBMS.
