---
source: blog
url: https://metrica.yandex.com/
topic: evolution-of-data-structures-in-yandex-metrica
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

and distributed). There are numerous SQL extensions: functions for web analytics, arrays and nested data structures, higher\-order functions, aggregate functions for approximate calculations using sketching, etc. By working with ClickHouse, you get the convenience of a relational DBMS.

ClickHouse was initially developed by the Yandex.Metrica team. Furthermore, we were able to make the system flexible and extensible enough that it can be successfully used for different tasks. Although the database can run on large clusters, it can be installed on one server or even on a virtual machine. There are now more than a dozen different ClickHouse applications within our company.

ClickHouse is well equipped for creating all kinds of analytical tools. Just consider: if the system can handle the challenges of Yandex.Metrica, you can be sure that ClickHouse will cope with other tasks with a lot of performance headroom to spare.

ClickHouse works well as a time series database; at Yandex it is commonly used as the backend for Graphite instead of Ceres/Whisper. This lets us work with more than a trillion metrics on a single server.

ClickHouse is used by analytics for internal tasks. Based on our experience at Yandex, ClickHouse performs at about three orders of magnitude higher than traditional methods of data processing (scripts on MapReduce). But this is not a simple quantitative difference. The fact of the matter is that by having such a high calculation speed, you can afford to employ radically different methods of problem solving.

If an analyst has to make a report and they are competent at their job, they won't just go ahead and construct one report. Rather, they will start by retrieving dozens of other reports to better understand the nature of the data and test various hypotheses. It is often useful to look at data from different angles in order to posit and check new hypotheses, even if you don't have a clear goal.

This is only possible if the data analysis speed allows you to conduct online research. The faster queries are executed, the more hypotheses you can test. Working with ClickHouse, one even gets the sense that they are able to think faster.
