---
source: blog
url: https://metrica.yandex.com/
topic: evolution-of-data-structures-in-yandex-metrica
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

possible if the data analysis speed allows you to conduct online research. The faster queries are executed, the more hypotheses you can test. Working with ClickHouse, one even gets the sense that they are able to think faster.

In traditional systems, data is like a dead weight, figuratively speaking. You can manipulate it, but it takes a lot of time and is inconvenient. If your data is in ClickHouse though, it is much more malleable: you can study it in different cross\-sections and drill down to the individual rows of data.

## Conclusions [\#](/blog/evolution-of-data-structures-in-yandexmetrica#conclusions)

Yandex.Metrica has become the second largest web\-analytics system in the world. The volume of data that Metrica takes in grew from 200 million events a day in 2009 to more than 25 billion in 2016\. In order to provide users with a wide variety of options while still keeping up with the increasing workload, we've had to constantly modify our approach to data storage.

Effective hardware utilization is very important to us. In our experience, when you have a large volume of data, it's better not to worry as much about how well the system scales and instead focus on how effectively each unit of resource is used: each processor core, disk and SSD, RAM, and network. After all, if your system is already using hundreds of servers, and you have to work ten times more efficiently, it is unlikely that you can just proceed to install thousands of servers, no matter how scalable your system is.

To maximize efficiency, it's important to customize your solution to meet the needs of specific type of workload. There is no data structure that copes well with completely different scenarios. For example, it's clear that key\-value databases don't work for analytical queries. The greater the load on the system, the narrower the specialization required. One should not be afraid to use completely different data structures for different tasks.

We were able to set things up so that Yandex.Metrica's hardware was relatively inexpensive. This has allowed us to offer the service free of charge to even very large sites and mobile apps, even larger than Yanex‘s own, while competitors typically start asking for a paid subscription plan.
