---
source: blog
url: https://vimeo.com
topic: behind-the-scenes-how-clickhouse-helps-vimeo-power-video-analytics-at-scale
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

heavy investments in hardware and maintenance, the company faced performance bottlenecks that hurt their ability to scale. As Zeev explains, “We spent a lot of money, we had an insane amount of nodes, and still outages kept happening.”

These issues were compounded by the complexity of Vimeo’s data requirements, with different video types each requiring unique analytics. Live video, in particular, demands low latency for real\-time data processing, which the existing infrastructure couldn’t deliver.

“We tried to scale horizontally, but we didn’t get the results we wanted,” Zeev says. “We knew eventually we had to make a change, which finally we did.”

## A Better Data Solution [\#](/blog/behind-the-scenes-how-clickhouse-helps-vimeo-power-video-analytics-at-scale#a-better-data-solution)

Zeev and the team kicked off a search for a long\-term solution that could meet their data demands. They compared three database management systems — Apache Druid, MemSQL, and ClickHouse — to find the best combination of performance, scalability, and cost efficiency.

After a thorough evaluation that considered factors like query performance, ease of integration, and overall system reliability, ClickHouse emerged as the frontrunner thanks to its reputation for handling large\-scale data analytics with lightning\-fast speed and efficiency. They decided to run a proof of concept (POC) to fully test ClickHouse’s capabilities.

The POC phase was designed to simulate Vimeo’s real\-world data challenges. The team started by stress\-testing ClickHouse with a sample set of 25% of their total data, processing large volumes of video analytics, running complex queries, and ensuring the system could handle Vimeo’s high concurrency demands. They tested various scenarios, including data ingestion, query performance under peak loads, and system stability during simulated failures.

“Because we had faced so many outages with HBase, we wanted to make sure ClickHouse could survive any demands we put on it,” Zeev says.

The results of the POC were overwhelmingly positive. ClickHouse not only met but exceeded Vimeo’s expectations in several key areas. Query performance improved by orders of magnitude, running 10 times faster than before. The system proved highly stable, even under heavy loads, while requiring four times fewer servers and three to five times less storage.

“ClickHouse just beat everyone by far,” Zeev says. Confident that it could transform their data operations and handle growing demand, they were ready to move forward with a full\-scale implementation of ClickHouse.

## Vimeo’s New Data Architecture [\#](/blog/behind-the-scenes-how-clickhouse-helps-vimeo-power-video-analytics-at-scale#vimeos-new-data-architecture)
