---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/real-world-data-noaa-climate-data
topic: optimizing-clickhouse-with-schemas-and-codecs
ch_version_introduced: '2.24'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

formatReadableSize(sum(data_uncompressed_bytes)) AS uncompressed_size, 4 round(sum(data_uncompressed_bytes) / sum(data_compressed_bytes), 2) AS ratio 5FROM system.columns 6WHERE table = 'noaa_codec_v1' ``` ``` ``` ┌─compressed_size─┬─uncompressed_size─┬─ratio─┐ │ 4.07 GiB │ 131.58 GiB │ 32.36 │ └─────────────────┴───────────────────┴───────┘ 1 row in set. Elapsed: 0.004 sec. ```

We’ll refer to these numbers throughout the blog and use these queries again to measure the impact of any schema changes we make. Ultimately we’re aiming to reduce both the `uncompressed_size` and `compressed_size`. This has a number of advantages beyond simply saving storage costs. Reduced data size on disk means less I/O at query time, potentially accelerating queries. While ClickHouse Cloud separates storage and compute, using object storage such as s3 also utilizes a local cache to reduce latency on queries that have similar access patterns. Higher compression means more data in the cache and more queries, potentially benefiting from not needing to download parts from the object store. The `uncompressed_size` is equally important to consider. Data must be decompressed prior to it being processed by queries. Larger data size post\-decompression will result in greater RAM usage for query execution and potentially reduced CPU cache efficiency \- both negatively impacting query performance.

An initial analysis of the compression ratio highlights how ClickHouse’s column\-oriented design archives great compression out of the box, with no tuning, compressing this dataset thirty\-two to one or over 96%\*. We can, however, do better. Our initial focus should probably be on the largest columns, which currently have moderate compression: `date`, `tempMax`, `tempMin`, and `precipitation`.

> \*Note these measurements are taken in ClickHouse Cloud where ZSTD(1\) is enabled by default (see below).

This sample query will be used before and after each of our changes to assess query performance. The following computes weather statistics for elevations every 100m. We don’t output any results as we’re ultimately interested in only the run time \- hence `FORMAT Null`.

```

```
1SELECT
2    elevation_range,
3    uniq(station_id) AS num_stations,
4    max(tempMax) / 10 AS max_temp,
5    min(tempMin) / 10 AS min_temp,
6    sum(precipitation) AS total_precipitation,
7    avg(percentDailySun) AS avg_percent_sunshine,
8    max(maxWindSpeed) AS max_wind_speed,
9    sum(snowfall) AS total_snowfall
10FROM noaa_codec_v1
11WHERE (date > '1970-01-01') AND (station_id IN (
12    SELECT station_id
13    FROM stations
14    WHERE country_code = 'US'
15))
16GROUP BY floor(elevation, -2) AS elevation_range
17ORDER BY elevation_range ASC
18FORMAT `Null`
```

```
