---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/real-world-data-noaa-climate-data
topic: optimizing-clickhouse-with-schemas-and-codecs
ch_version_introduced: '2.24'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 18
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

comes down to understanding the characteristics of your data and the properties of the codecs and compression algorithms. While we encourage you to test, we also find the following general guidelines useful to act as a starting point:

- **ZSTD all the way** \- ZSTD with no codec often outperforms other options concerning compression or is at the very least competitive: especially for floating points. This is thus our default compression in ClickHouse Cloud.
- **Delta for integer sequences** \- Delta\-based codecs work well whenever you have Monotonic sequences or small deltas in consecutive values. More specifically, the Delta codec works well, provided the derivatives yield small numbers. If not, DoubleDelta is worth trying (this typically adds little if the first\-level derivative from Delta is already very small). Sequences where the monotonic increment is uniform, will compress even better \- see the dramatic savings on our `date` field.
- **Maybe Gorilla and T64 for unknown patterns** \- If the data has an unknown pattern, it may be worth trying Gorilla and T64\. Gorilla is designed principally for floating point data with small changes in value. It specifically calculates an XOR between the current and previous value and writes it in compact binary form: with the best results when neighboring values are the same. For further information, see Compressing Values in [Gorilla: A Fast, Scalable, In\-Memory Time Series Database](http://www.vldb.org/pvldb/vol8/p1816-teller.pdf). It can also be used for integers. In our tests, however, plain ZSTD outperforms these codecs even when combined with them.
- **T64 for sparse or small ranges** \- Above, we have shown T64 can be effective on sparse data or when the range in a block is small. Avoid T64 for random numbers.
- **Gorilla possibly for floating point and gauge data** \- Other posts have highlighted Gorilla's effectiveness on floating point data, specifically that which represents gauge readings, i.e., random spikes. This aligns with the algorithmic properties, although we have no fields in our above dataset to verify. Our tests above suggest, at least on Float32s, that ZSTD offers the best compression of Floats.
- **Delta improves ZSTD** \- ZSTD is an effective codec on delta data \- conversely, delta encoding can improve ZSTD compression. Compression levels above `3` rarely result in significant gains, but we recommend testing. In the presence of ZSTD, other codecs rarely offer further improvement, as demonstrated by our results above. We have seen reports of LZ4 offering superior compression on DoubleDelta encoded data than ZSTD on artificial datasets, but we have yet to find evidence of this with our real datasets.
- **LZ4 over ZSTD if possible** \- if you get comparable compression between LZ4 and ZSTD, favor the former since it offers faster decompression and needs less CPU. However, ZSTD will outperform LZ4 by a significant margin in most cases. Some of these codecs may work faster in combination with LZ4 while providing similar compression compared to ZSTD without a codec. This will be data specific, however, and requires testing.
Share this postCopy URLShare on Y CombinatorShare on TwitterShare on BlueSkyShare on FacebookShare on LinkedIn### Subscribe to our newsletter
