---
source: blog
url: https://www.attentive.com/
topic: confoundingly-fast-inside-attentive-s-migration-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

they needed to solve. “Before you undertake a migration like this, you should figure out why you’re doing it,” he says. “If you don’t actually understand the problem you’re solving, you probably aren’t going to solve it correctly.”

He stresses the importance of understanding your data, including the size and shape of it, and having a good observability system to measure success. In Attentive’s case, the company’s rapid growth and their use of machine learning models meant their data was “growing way faster than before.” They needed a “smarter, faster, simpler” system that could account for specific challenges such as mutating data and idempotency, essential for tracking dynamic customer attributes like location and behavior in real time.

“We wanted to simplify our data architecture, make it easier to build product, make it faster — all the good stuff,” Larry says. “We knew that moving to one database would streamline things and make our system more performant and scalable, without breaking the bank.”

## Choosing the right technology [\#](/blog/confoundingly-fast-inside-attentives-migration-to-clickhouse#choosing-the-right-technology)

With so many options available, choosing a database wasn’t easy. “There’s a lot to consider,” Larry says. “Some databases excel at many things, like ClickHouse, while others don’t.”

He suggests researching solutions and quickly becoming an “expert” by learning from industry trends and tech talks. He also advises against letting emotions drive decisions and warns not to linger too long in the research phase. It’s important to consider your company’s needs, budget, and detractors, and distinguish real constraints from artificial ones.

After exploring ClickHouse’s features and performance, he was impressed. The installation was “super easy,” and his first queries were “confoundingly fast.” He laughs as he recounts his confusion at ClickHouse’s speed: “I kept thinking, ‘Is it caching something? Am I missing something? Is my laptop on steroids?’”

Cost was another factor. “We’re not in ZIRP times anymore,” Larry says. “We can’t just print money.” ClickHouse’s efficiency and lower resource consumption, combined with its speed, scalability, and support for idempotent data, made it ideal for Attentive’s use case. Its ability to handle large result sets for targeting campaigns was also crucial.
