---
source: blog
url: https://www.attentive.com/
topic: confoundingly-fast-inside-attentive-s-migration-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

print money.” ClickHouse’s efficiency and lower resource consumption, combined with its speed, scalability, and support for idempotent data, made it ideal for Attentive’s use case. Its ability to handle large result sets for targeting campaigns was also crucial.

ClickHouse’s [ReplacingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree) engine was especially helpful, Larry adds, allowing Attentive to replay data multiple times, even out of order, and achieve consistent results. “We can replay data over and over in any order, and every time we get the right result.”

## Evaluating and implementing ClickHouse [\#](/blog/confoundingly-fast-inside-attentives-migration-to-clickhouse#evaluating-and-implementing-clickhouse)

Before committing to ClickHouse, Larry and the team ran tests to ensure the database could handle Attentive’s real\-world demands. They used a two\-pronged approach, replaying production traffic to assess how well the system handled data insertion under load and using mock datasets to evaluate query performance, retrieval, and updates.

“It’s important to test with data that represents your actual workload,” Larry says. “You’ll hear people say, ‘This system’s so fast,’ but when you dig into it, they’ve used the simplest query possible. That doesn’t tell you the system is actually going to scale or be fast enough for your use case. We needed to see performance on our own data and queries.”

Once they confirmed ClickHouse could handle their specific workload, they moved on to building the infrastructure. They opted for [ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.com/cloud), a decision that saved Larry and his team the headache of managing their own infrastructure — a big help for a growing company whose main focus is on scaling their product.

“You might enjoy running databases, but once you manage it yourself, you become that expert people call at 3 in the morning when something bad happens,” Larry says. The cloud service, by contrast, was quick and easy to set up. “You sign up, click a few buttons, and you have your database running with endpoints ready to go.”

## Schema design and data ingestion [\#](/blog/confoundingly-fast-inside-attentives-migration-to-clickhouse#schema-design-and-data-ingestion)

With the new infrastructure in place, Attentive turned its attention to schema design — what Larry calls “super important” for getting the best performance out of ClickHouse.
