---
source: blog
url: https://corsearch.com
topic: corsearch-replaces-mysql-with-clickhouse-for-content-and-brand-protection
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

customers. - **Operational complexity** \- multiple database backends, including MySQL, BigQuery, and MongoDB, were used to support key customer\-facing applications and meant more time spent on maintenance rather than building new functionality. ## Adopting ClickHouse for anti\-piracy [\#](/blog/corsearch-replaces-mysql-with-clickhouse-for-content-and-brand-protection#adopting-clickhouse-for-anti-piracy)

One of Corsearch’s primary client\-facing reporting products is a search engine protection service, which supports the anti\-piracy and content protection business. Corsearch scrapes millions of search results every hour, looking for infringing content. They invested heavily in developing sophisticated search engine monitoring metrics, taking inspiration from best practices in SEO and SEM like rank tracking and traffic share. They focused on making the user interface familiar and appealing to marketing teams trying to optimize search engine footprint and profile, except flipping the idea on its head. *“We told marketing teams that pirates were essentially encroaching on their territory – real estate within search result positions,”* Chase said. Corsearch gave them the visibility and tools to fight back.

However, the reporting interface required real\-time analysis for hundreds of metrics, and that experience had to be interactive, or the marketing teams would be frustrated using it. This means that dozens of concurrent queries on recent and historical data across all active users had to execute in milliseconds. The MySQL database was not the right fit for a workload entailing 10\+ filterable dimensions with daily, weekly, and monthly group\-bys on top of time\-series data.*“We developed killer metrics and built a front end. But we were running on a pre\-aggregated set of MySQL tables, with heavy table partitioning around data. It was operationally complex and still did not scale.”* This problem became more apparent as app usage grew – queries got slower and slower and users started to leave the app. Chase told the meetup: *“It worked well at the beginning and then our client systems kept growing – great news for our start\-up business – but it meant the data kept scaling up and up and up and with MySQL, of course, there are index constraints and you are bound by a row based technology.”*

> “We got some eye\-popping figures. The compression ratios alone just made managing the servers and the deployments much easier.”

## Making the switch to ClickHouse for real\-time analytics [\#](/blog/corsearch-replaces-mysql-with-clickhouse-for-content-and-brand-protection#making-the-switch-to-clickhouse-for-real-time-analytics)
