---
source: blog
url: https://corsearch.com
topic: corsearch-replaces-mysql-with-clickhouse-for-content-and-brand-protection
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

it has gone down or been blocked (both frequent occurrences in the piracy ecosystem). *“By utilizing expert models and embeddings, we detect substantive changes in web pages and identify connections between pages that share similar characteristics,”* explains Chase.

Chase and his team conducted a comparative analysis of ClickHouse with dedicated vector databases, and found that while they may offer better performance for approximate indexes, they are still special\-purpose systems and would need a complimentary skillset to adopt and maintain. Instead, Corsearch is able to execute vector distance calculations bounded by multiple dimensions directly in ClickHouse, along with other methods for detecting piracy, facilitated with the SQL syntax. Thus, there is no need to maintain additional infrastructure or learn a new language.

## Adopting ClickHouse for observability [\#](/blog/corsearch-replaces-mysql-with-clickhouse-for-content-and-brand-protection#adopting-clickhouse-for-observability)

In another significant use case, Corsearch adopted ClickHouse to monitor its search engine scraping setup. The search engine service is responsible for parsing results from major search engines like Google, Yahoo, and YouTube, and must operate seamlessly. Instead of using an off–the\-shelf observability tool, Chase and his team developed custom instrumentation to track search engine operations, sent telemetry to ClickHouse, and used Grafana to visualize the results and alert on potential problems. Recently this approach to observability has been termed [SQL\-Based Observability](/blog/the-state-of-sql-based-observability), and has been adopted by the likes of Uber, eBay, and other technology leaders.

From a schema perspective, it’s a straightforward table design, consisting of just two tables. One table facilitates a generic metrics system, allowing for the tracking of various metrics such as queue depths. The other table encapsulates what Chase refers to as *"the atomic unit of work,"* which tracks an attempt to crawl a web page. The infrastructure enables the creation of charts and time series metrics effortlessly. Each column effectively becomes its own time series, ensuring that data can be materialized into its original form at any time.

*“It works fantastically for my small team,”* Chase told the meetup. While the instrumentation is custom, Chase admitted that if he started today, he would look into using [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/) first, as it’s becoming a clear standard. The performance and resource efficiency benefits of ClickHouse extend to this use case as well: *“The system manages to store over 10 billion rows spanning four years in less than 325 GB on disk,”* Chase shared.
