---
source: blog
url: https://kubernetes.io/blog/2023/04/28/statefulset-start-ordinal/
topic: make-before-break-faster-scaling-mechanics-for-clickhouse-cloud
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

important aspect of these migrations \- coordination with other systems. The signal to trigger the migration needed to be communicated to the Kubernetes controller, and the result of a successful or failed migration needed to be communicated back.

The orchestration of these maintenance was done via Molen \- our in\-house [Temporal](https://temporal.io/)\-based automation system. Temporal comes with a lot of out\-of\-the\-box features that we leveraged in our workflow:

- **Durable Execution** \- This is a critical capability of Temporal that we leveraged. Once the migrations were finished, we wanted to restore the cluster back to its original configuration \- so we needed a place to store these configurations. Thanks to [Temporal’s Activity Inputs and Outputs](https://docs.temporal.io/activities), which are always durable and can be referenced further down in the workflow, we got all of this out of the box without doing any manual database operations.
- **Failure Detection** \- If a migration fails, we want to be notified and take action. This was made quite easy thanks to Temporal.
- **Retry Policies and Timeouts** \- Operations such as disabling idling, autoscaling, backups etc were handled via our internal management API. These operations could fail, and so with Temporal, we got automatic failure detections.
- **Scheduling Capabilities** \- Because we had 1000s of migrations that needed to happen, we wanted to schedule them in batches and perform these migrations at the rate of say 10\-20 per day. This was easily doable with the scheduling capabilities of Temporal.
- **Composable** \- We really liked the fact that with Temporal, you could chain activities together \- so the output of one activity could become the input of the next one. This kind of composability made for a very pleasant programming experience.
- **Scalable** \- At no point was the scalability of the temporal workers itself a concern. Once a workflow gets kicked off, the jobs get scheduled on the Temporal workers running on our internal tooling K8s cluster and everything "just worked".

We created 2 workflows:
