---
source: blog
url: https://termux.com/
topic: running-clickhouse-on-an-android-phone
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

binary also doesn't have a lot of dependencies — only a pretty old version of `glibc`. Maybe I can just download a ClickHouse binary from CI to the phone and run it? Turns out it's not that simple.

- The first thing we'll see after trying to run is an absurd error message: `./clickhouse: file is not found`. But it's right there! `strace` helps: what cannot be found is `/lib64/ld-linux-x86-64.so.2`, a linker specified in the ClickHouse binary. The linker, in this case, is a system program that initially loads the application binary and its dependencies before passing control to the application. Android uses a different linker located by another path, this is why we get the error. This problem can be overcome if we call the linker explicitly, e.g. `/system/bin/linker64 $(readlink -f ./clickhouse)`.
- Immediately we encounter another problem: the linker complains that the binary has a wrong type `ET_EXEC`. What does this mean? Android binaries must support dynamic relocation, so that they can be loaded at any address, probably for ASLR purposes. ClickHouse binaries do not normally use position\-independent code, because we have measured that it gives a small performance penalty of about 1%. After tweaking compilation and linking flags to include `-fPIC` as much as possible, and battling some really weird linker errors, we finally arrive at a relocatable binary that has a correct type `ET_DYN`.
- But it only gets worse. Now it complains about TLS section offset being wrong. After reading some mail archives where I could barely understand a word, I concluded that Android uses some different layout of memory for the section of the executable that holds thread\-local variables, and `clang` from Android toolchain is patched to account for this. After that, I had to accept I won't be able to use familiar tools, and reluctantly turned to the Android toolchain.

## Using the Android toolchain [\#](/blog/running-click-house-on-an-android-phone#using-the-android-toolchain)
