---
source: blog
url: https://termux.com/
topic: running-clickhouse-on-an-android-phone
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

in StackTrace::tryCapture() () #6 0x0000005562aabb10 in StackTrace::StackTrace() () #7 0x0000005562a8d73c in MemoryTracker::alloc(long) () #8 0x0000005562a8db38 in MemoryTracker::alloc(long) () #9 0x0000005562a8e8bc in CurrentMemoryTracker::alloc(long) () #10 0x0000005562a8b88c in operator new[](unsigned long) () #11 0x0000005569c35f08 in Poco::XML::NamePool::NamePool(unsigned long) () ... ```

What is this function, and why do we need it? In this particular stack trace, we're out of memory, and about to throw an exception for that. `unw_backtrace` is called to produce a backtrace for the exception message. But there is another interesting context where we call it. Believe it or not, ClickHouse has a built\-in `perf`\-like sampling profiler that can save stack traces for CPU time and real time, and also memory allocations. The data is saved into a `system.trace_log` table, so you can build flame graphs for what your query was doing as simple as piping output of an SQL query into `flamegraph.pl`. This is an interesting feature, but what is relevant now is that it sends signals to all threads of the server to interrupt them at some random time and save their current backtraces, using the same `unw_backtrace` function that we know to segfault. We expect query profiler to be used in production environment, so it is enabled by default. After disabling it, we have a functioning ClickHouse server running on Android.

## Is your phone good enough? [\#](/blog/running-click-house-on-an-android-phone#is-your-phone-good-enough)
