---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/offset.md)#
topic: offset-fetch-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# OFFSET FETCH Clause \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Statements](/docs/sql-reference/statements)- [SELECT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select)- OFFSET
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/offset.md)# OFFSET FETCH Clause

`OFFSET` and `FETCH` allow you to retrieve data by portions. They specify a row block which you want to get by a single query.

```
-- SQL Standard style:
[OFFSET offset_row_count {ROW | ROWS}] [FETCH {FIRST | NEXT} fetch_row_count {ROW | ROWS} {ONLY | WITH TIES}]

-- MySQL/PostgreSQL style:
[LIMIT [n, ]m] [OFFSET offset_row_count]

```

The `offset_row_count` or `fetch_row_count` value can be a number or a literal constant. You can omit `fetch_row_count`; by default, it equals to 1\.

`OFFSET` specifies the number of rows to skip before starting to return rows from the query result set. `OFFSET n` skips the first `n` rows from the result.

Negative OFFSET is supported: `OFFSET -n` skips the last `n` rows from the result.

Fractional OFFSET is also supported: `OFFSET n` \- if 0 \< n \< 1, then the first n \* 100% of the result is skipped.

Example:  

• `OFFSET 0.1` \- skips the first 10% of the result.

> **Note**  
> 
> • The fraction must be a [Float64](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/float) number less than 1 and greater than zero.  
> 
> • If a fractional number of rows results from the calculation, it is rounded up to the next whole number.

The `FETCH` specifies the maximum number of rows that can be in the result of a query.

The `ONLY` option is used to return rows that immediately follow the rows omitted by the `OFFSET`. In this case the `FETCH` is an alternative to the [LIMIT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/limit) clause. For example, the following query

```
SELECT * FROM test_fetch ORDER BY a OFFSET 1 ROW FETCH FIRST 3 ROWS ONLY;

```

is identical to the query

```
SELECT * FROM test_fetch ORDER BY a LIMIT 3 OFFSET 1;

```

The `WITH TIES` option is used to return any additional rows that tie for the last place in the result set according to the `ORDER BY` clause. For example, if `fetch_row_count` is set to 5 but two additional rows match the values of the `ORDER BY` columns in the fifth row, the result set will contain seven rows.

NoteAccording to the standard, the `OFFSET` clause must come before the `FETCH` clause if both are present.
