---
source: blog
url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/yuryizrailevsky/
topic: introducing-clickhouse-inc
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

love data and processing in extreme constraints, where you have to think about bytes and nanoseconds to save petabytes and seconds. The ClickHouse team shares this passion: in my opinion, this is the main reason for ClickHouse’s success.

In 2009 we started ClickHouse as an experimental project to check the hypothesis if it's viable to generate analytical reports in real\-time from non\-aggregated data that is also constantly added in real\-time. It took three years to prove this hypothesis, and in 2012 ClickHouse launched in production for the first time. Unlike custom data structures used before, ClickHouse was applicable more generally to work as a database management system. After several years I found that most departments in my company were using ClickHouse, and it made me wonder: maybe ClickHouse is too good to run only inside Yandex? Then we released it in [open source](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse) in 2016\.

## ClickHouse in Open Source [\#](/blog/introducing-click-house-inc#clickhouse-in-open-source)

Making ClickHouse open source was also not an easy decision, but now I see: doing open source is hard, but it is a big win. While it takes a tremendous effort and responsibility to maintain a popular open\-source product, for us, the benefits outweigh all the costs. Since we published ClickHouse, it has been deployed in production in thousands of companies across the globe for a wide range of use cases, from agriculture to self\-driving cars. In 2019 we spent over a third of our time abroad organizing various ClickHouse events and speaking at external conferences, and we’re thrilled to see you all again in person once travel restrictions become less severe. The feedback and contributions from our community are priceless, and we improve the quality of implementation, the feature completeness, and making product decisions with the help of our community. One of our main focuses is to make ClickHouse welcoming for contributors by making the source code easy to read and understand, with the processes easy to follow. For me, ClickHouse is a showcase so everyone can learn the ideas in data processing.
