---
source: blog
url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/yuryizrailevsky/
topic: introducing-clickhouse-inc
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

is to make ClickHouse welcoming for contributors by making the source code easy to read and understand, with the processes easy to follow. For me, ClickHouse is a showcase so everyone can learn the ideas in data processing.

I like to present ClickHouse as the answer to many questions in software engineering. What is better: vectorization or JIT compilation? Look at ClickHouse; it is using both. How to write the code in modern C\+\+ in a safe way? Ok, look at the testing infrastructure in ClickHouse. How to optimize the memcpy function? What is the fastest way to transform a Unix timestamp to date in a custom timezone? I can do multiple\-hour talks about these topics, and thanks to the open\-source, everyone can read the code, run ClickHouse and validate our claims.

## Technical Advantage [\#](/blog/introducing-click-house-inc#technical-advantage)

The most notable advantage of ClickHouse is its extremely high query processing speed and data storage efficiency. What is unique about ClickHouse performance? It is difficult to answer because there is no single "[silver bullet](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZOZQCQEtrz8)". The main advantage is attention to details of the most extreme production workloads. We develop ClickHouse from practical needs. It has been created to solve the needs of Metrica, one of the [most widespread](https://w3techs.com/technologies/overview/traffic_analysis) web analytics services in the world. So ClickHouse is capable of processing 100\+ PBs of data with more than 100 billion records inserted every day. One of the early adopters, Cloudflare, uses ClickHouse to process a large portion of all HTTP traffic on the internet with 10\+ million records per second. As ClickHouse developers, we don’t consider the task solved if there is room for performance improvement.
