---
source: blog
url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/yuryizrailevsky/
topic: introducing-clickhouse-inc
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

adopters, Cloudflare, uses ClickHouse to process a large portion of all HTTP traffic on the internet with 10\+ million records per second. As ClickHouse developers, we don’t consider the task solved if there is room for performance improvement.

Query processing performance is not only about speed. It opens new possibilities. In previous generation data warehouses, you cannot run interactive queries without pre\-aggregation; or you cannot insert new data in real time while serving interactive queries; or you cannot just store all your data. With ClickHouse, you can keep all records as long as you need and make interactive real\-time reporting across the data. Before using ClickHouse, it was difficult to imagine that analytical data processing could be so easy and efficient: there is no need for a dozen pre\-aggregating and tiering services (e.g. Druid), no need to place huge data volumes in RAM (e.g. Elastic), and no need to maintain daily/hourly/minutely tables (e.g. Hadoop, Spark).

Most other database management systems don’t even permit benchmarks (through the infamous "DeWitt clause"). But we don’t fear benchmarks; we [collect them](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/22398). ClickHouse documentation has [links](/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/) to publicly available datasets up to multiple terabytes in size from various domain areas. We encourage you to try ClickHouse, do some experiments on your workload, and find ClickHouse faster than others. And if not, we encourage you to publish the benchmark, and we will make ClickHouse better!

Lastly, ClickHouse was purpose\-built from the beginning to:

- Be easy to install and use. It runs everywhere, from your laptop to the cloud
- Be highly reliable and scale both vertically and horizontally
- Provide SQL with many practical and convenient extensions
- Integrate with foreign data sources and streams

## ClickHouse Spinout From Yandex [\#](/blog/introducing-click-house-inc#clickhouse-spinout-from-yandex)

Yandex N.V. is the largest internet company in Europe and employs over 14,000 people. They develop search, advertisement, and e\-commerce services, ride tech and food tech solutions, self\-driving cars... and also ClickHouse with a team of 15 engineers. It is hard to believe that we have managed to build a world\-class leading analytical DBMS with such a small team while leveraging the global community. While this was barely enough to keep up with the development of the open\-source product, everyone understands that the potential of ClickHouse technology highly outgrows such a small team.
