---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tick_size
topic: build-a-real-time-market-data-app-with-clickhouse-and-massive
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

`z` Enum8('NYSE' = 1, 'AMEX' = 2, 'Nasdaq' = 3), 30 `trfi` UInt64, 31 `trft` UInt64, 32 `inserted_at` UInt64 DEFAULT toUnixTimestamp64Milli(now64()) 33) 34ORDER BY (sym, t - (t % 60000)); ``` ``` The data volume can grow quickly.

For example, tracking trades on the Nasdaq alone can generate [around 50 million records per day](https://www.nasdaqtrader.com/Trader.aspx?id=DailyMarketSummary). Choosing an [effective order key](https://clickhouse.com/docs/best-practices/choosing-a-primary-key) is essential for performance. In this case, rows are ordered first by sym (the stock symbol), grouping all events for the same symbol. Within each symbol group, rows are ordered by `t - (t % 60000)`, which creates 1\-minute time buckets. This approach works well in our case, as we aggregate data by symbol to generate the visualization. Grouping by minute improves the efficiency of time\-based filtering and aggregation.

### Ingestion strategy [\#](/blog/build-a-real-time-market-data-app-with-clickhouse-and-polygonio#ingestion-strategy)

There are several ways to design an ingestion pipeline for this type of application, including using a message queue like [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/). However, to minimize latency, it's often better to keep the system simple and push data directly from the WebSocket connection into ClickHouse when possible.

Once that setup is in place, the next step is to choose the [right ingestion method](https://clickhouse.com/docs/best-practices/selecting-an-insert-strategy). ClickHouse supports both synchronous and asynchronous inserts.

With synchronous ingestion, data is batched on the client side before being sent. The [batch size](https://clickhouse.com/docs/optimize/bulk-inserts) should strike a balance between memory usage, latency, and system overhead. Larger batches reduce the number of insert requests and improve throughput, but they can increase memory usage and delay individual records. Smaller batches reduce memory pressure but may create more load on ClickHouse by generating too many small data parts.

With asynchronous ingestion, data is sent to ClickHouse continuously, and batching is handled internally. Incoming records are first written to an in\-memory buffer, which is then flushed to storage based on configurable thresholds. This method is useful when client\-side batching isn't practical, such as when data comes from many small clients.

In our case, synchronous ingestion is a better fit. Since there's only one client pushing data from the WebSocket API, batching can be managed on the client side for better control over performance and resource usage.

Code snippet to ingest data from the NodeJS application.
