---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/numeric-indexed-vector-functions.md)#
topic: numericindexedvector-functions-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '2405.08411'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

directly on the compressed data, which can significantly improve the efficiency of storage and query. A vector contains indices and their corresponding values. The following are some characteristics and constraints of this data structure in BSI storage mode:

- The index type can be one of `UInt8`, `UInt16`, or `UInt32`. **Note:** Considering the performance of 64\-bit implementation of Roaring Bitmap, BSI format does not support `UInt64`/`Int64`.
- The value type can be one of `Int8`, `Int16`, `Int32`, `Int64`, `UInt8`, `UInt16`, `UInt32`, `UInt64`, `Float32`, or `Float64`. **Note:** The value type does not automatically expand. For example, if you use `UInt8` as the value type, any sum that exceeds the capacity of `UInt8` will result in an overflow rather than being promoted to a higher type; similarly, operations on integers will yield integer results (e.g., division will not automatically convert to a floating\-point result). Therefore, it is important to plan and design the value type ahead of time. In real\-world scenarios, floating\-point types (`Float32`/`Float64`) are commonly used.
- Only two vectors with the same index type and value type can perform operations.
- The underlying storage uses Bit\-Sliced Index, with bitmap storing indexes. Roaring Bitmap is used as the specific implementation of bitmap. A best practice is to concentrate the index in several Roaring Bitmap containers as much as possible to maximize compression and query performance.
- The Bit\-Sliced Index mechanism converts value into binary. For floating\-point types, the conversion uses fixed\-point representation, which may lead to precision loss. The precision can be adjusted by customizing the number of bits used for the fractional part, default is 24 bits, which is sufficient for most scenarios. You can customize the number of integer bits and fractional bits when constructing NumericIndexedVector using aggregate function groupNumericIndexedVector with `-State`.
- There are three cases for indices: non\-zero value, zero value and non\-existent. In NumericIndexedVector, only non\-zero value and zero value will be stored. In addition, in pointwise operations between two NumericIndexedVectors, the value of non\-existent index will be treated as 0\. In the division scenario, the result is zero when the divisor is zero.

## Create a numericIndexedVector object[​](#create-numeric-indexed-vector-object "Direct link to Create a numericIndexedVector object")
