---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/numeric-indexed-vector-functions.md)#
topic: numericindexedvector-functions-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '2405.08411'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

between two NumericIndexedVectors, the value of non\-existent index will be treated as 0\. In the division scenario, the result is zero when the divisor is zero. ## Create a numericIndexedVector object[​](#create-numeric-indexed-vector-object "Direct link to Create a numericIndexedVector object")

There are two ways to create this structure: one is to use the aggregate function `groupNumericIndexedVector` with `-State`.
You can add suffix `-if` to accept an additional condition.
The aggregate function will only process the rows that trigger the condition.
The other is to build it from a map using `numericIndexedVectorBuild`.
The `groupNumericIndexedVectorState` function allows customization of the number of integer and fractional bits through parameters, while `numericIndexedVectorBuild` does not.

## groupNumericIndexedVector[​](#group-numeric-indexed-vector "Direct link to groupNumericIndexedVector")

Constructs a NumericIndexedVector from two data columns and returns the sum of all values as a `Float64` type. If the suffix `State` is added, it returns a NumericIndexedVector object.

**Syntax**

```
groupNumericIndexedVectorState(col1, col2)
groupNumericIndexedVectorState(type, integer_bit_num, fraction_bit_num)(col1, col2)

```

**Parameters**

- `type`: String, optional. Specifies the storage format. Currently, only `'BSI'` is supported.
- `integer_bit_num`: `UInt32`, optional. Effective under the `'BSI'` storage format, this parameter indicates the number of bits used for the integer part. When the index type is an integer type, the default value corresponds to the number of bits used to store the index. For example, if the index type is UInt16, the default `integer_bit_num` is 16\. For Float32 and Float64 index types, the default value of integer\_bit\_num is 40, so the integer part of the data that can be represented is in the range `[-2^39, 2^39 - 1]`. The legal range is `[0, 64]`.
- `fraction_bit_num`: `UInt32`, optional. Effective under the `'BSI'` storage format, this parameter indicates the number of bits used for the fractional part. When the value type is an integer, the default value is 0; when the value type is Float32 or Float64 types, the default value is 24\. The valid range is `[0, 24]`.
- There is also a constraint that the valid range of integer\_bit\_num \+ fraction\_bit\_num is \[0, 64].
- `col1`: The index column. Supported types: `UInt8`/`UInt16`/`UInt32`/`Int8`/`Int16`/`Int32`.
- `col2`: The value column. Supported types: `Int8`/`Int16`/`Int32`/`Int64`/`UInt8`/`UInt16`/`UInt32`/`UInt64`/`Float32`/`Float64`.

**Return value**

A `Float64` value representing the sum of all values.

**Example**

Test data:

```
UserID  PlayTime
1       10
2       20
3       30

```

Query \& Result:
