---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/1b49463bd297ade7472abffbc931c4bb9bf213d0/src/Storages/Kafka/StorageKafka.cpp\#L834](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/1b49463bd297ade7472abffbc931c4bb9bf213d0/src/Storages/Kafka/StorageKafka.cpp#L834
topic: multiple-mvs-attached-to-kafka-table-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '2022.11'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

Kafka Engine table can be used when you need to apply different transformations to the same topic and store the resulting data in different tables. (This approach also applies to the other streaming engines \- RabbitMQ, s3queue, etc).

All streaming engines begin processing data (reading from the source and producing insert blocks) only after at least one Materialized View is attached to the engine. Multiple Materialized Views can be connected to distribute data across various tables with different transformations. But how does it work when the server starts?

Once the first Materialized View (MV) is loaded, started, and attached to the Kafka/s3queue table, data consumption begins immediately—data is read from the source, pushed to the destination, and the pointers advance to the next position. However, any other MVs that haven’t started yet will miss the data consumed by the first MV, leading to some data loss.

This issue worsens with asynchronous table loading. Tables are only loaded upon first access, and the loading process takes time. When multiple MVs direct the data stream to different tables, some tables might be ready sooner than others. As soon as the first table becomes ready, data consumption starts, and any tables still loading will miss the data consumed during that interval, resulting in further data loss for those tables.

That means when you make a design with Multiple MVs `async_load_databases` should be switched off:

```
<async_load_databases>false</async_load_databases>

```
Also, you have to prevent starting to consume until all MVs are loaded and started. For that, you can add an additional Null table to the MV pipeline, so the Kafka table will pass the block to a single Null table first, and only then many MVs start their own transformations to many dest tables:

KafkaTable → dummy\_MV \-\> NullTable \-\> \[MV1, MV2, ….] → \[Table1, Table2, …]

```
create table NullTable Engine=Null as KafkaTable;
create materialized view dummy_MV to NullTable
select * from KafkaTable
--WHERE NOT ignore(throwIf(if((uptime() < 120), 1 , 0)))
WHERE NOT ignore(throwIf(if((uptime() < 120), 1 + sleep(3), 0)))

```
120 seconds should be enough for loading all MVs.

Using an intermediate Null table is also preferable because it’s easier to make any changes with MVs:
