---
source: blog
url: https://maksimkita.com/
topic: jit-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '10.3'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

is typically done this way, we pass pointers to functions in JIT code and call it from JIT code. ## LLVM infrastructure for JIT compilation [\#](/blog/clickhouse-just-in-time-compiler-jit#llvm-infrastructure-for-jit-compilation) On a high level for JIT compilation LLVM has the following things:

- Optimizing compiler. Optimization passes can be configured, and you can also vary optimization level based on your specific use cases. For example, you can first compile your code without optimizations and later recompile it with optimizations.
- Dynamic Linker that is used to resolve [relocations](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Relocation_(computing)), allocate necessary code and data sections, and prepare compiled object files for execution.
- LLVM IR (LLVM intermediate language representation).
- A lot of LLVM toolings like IR and assembly printers. Special JIT tooling to support GDB and perf. MCJIT, ORCJIT JIT compilers. In ClickHouse, we do not use them, but you can check out their implementation to understand how things work inside them.

LLVM IR is an intermediate language representation used in LLVM.

- [Static Single Assignment](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Static_single-assignment_form). Each variable is assigned only once.
- Strongly typed. Compilation will fail during the IR verification stage, if you do not get the types right.
- Allows to map high\-level constructions into low\-level representation. LLVM IR has support for modules, functions, and structures.

Let’s see how it looks like:

```
int64_t sum(int64_t value_1, int64_t value_2)
{
    return value_1 + value_2;
}

```

```
/usr/bin/clang++-12 -S -emit-llvm jit_example.cpp

; Function Attrs: noinline nounwind optnone uwtable mustprogress
define dso_local i64 @_Z3sumll(i64 %0, i64 %1) #0 {
  %3 = alloca i64, align 8 /// alloca - allocate memory on stack
  %4 = alloca i64, align 8
  store i64 %0, i64* %3, align 8 /// store - store value in pointer
  store i64 %1, i64* %4, align 8
  %5 = load i64, i64* %3, align 8 /// load - load value from pointer
  %6 = load i64, i64* %4, align 8
  %7 = add nsw i64 %5, %6 /// nsw - No Signed Wrap
  ret i64 %7
}

```

We will not use a lot of LLVM IR later in this post, but I highly encourage you to check the LLVM IR documentation.

Now let’s take a look at LLVM high\-level components.
