---
source: blog
url: https://maksimkita.com/
topic: jit-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '10.3'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

aggregate functions. Now let’s take an example query: ``` SELECT sum(UserID) FROM default.hits_100m_obfuscated GROUP BY WatchID ``` In this example aggregation key is `WatchID`, and we have single `sum` aggregate function, and `UserID` is `sum` aggregate function argument.

During aggregation execution:

1. For each row, lookup aggregate state for aggregation key (in our case WatchID) in hash table. If aggregation state exists add the aggregate function argument value (in our case UserID) to the aggregation state. Otherwise, create the aggregate function state for this aggregation key, and add aggregate function argument value to aggregation state.
2. For each unique aggregation key merge the aggregate function states in case multiple threads are used for aggregation (most of the time in ClickHouse parallel GROUP BY operator processing is taking place).
3. For each unique aggregation key materialize the aggregate function state and insert the result into final column.

During these steps, we call:

- `create` aggregate function method for each unique key.
- `add` aggregate function method for each row.
- `merge` aggregate function method for each unique key.
- `insertResultInto` aggregate function method for each unique key.

The main problem is that we perform a lot of virtual function calls. The situation is even worse in the case of multiple aggregate functions because we have to perform the same number of virtual function calls as in the single function example, additionally multiplied by the number of aggregate functions.

Additional problems with this approach:

- For Nullable columns, we have a Nullable wrapper that wraps any aggregate function to work with nullable columns. This introduces an additional indirection layer.
- We also have aggregation combinators, like `-If`, `-Array`. They wrap any aggregate function and add specific logic. This introduces an additional indirection layer. Example: `SELECT sumIf(column, metric > value)`.

The solution is obvious, we need to fuse multiple aggregate functions into one. Basically, aggregate functions during aggregation use 4 actions: `create`, `add`, `merge`, `insertResultInto`. We can fuse these actions for multiple functions, to avoid indirections and decrease the number of virtual function calls.

The compilation is supported for the following aggregate functions:

- Most common aggregate functions `sum`, `count`, `min`, `max`, `avg`, `avgWeighted`.
- Nullable aggregate function adaptor.
- Aggregate function combinator `-If`.

For example if we take query:
