---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-part1
topic: choosing-the-right-join-algorithm
ch_version_introduced: '23.5'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

of both joined tables, the full sorting merge join has higher memory consumption. With ⑤ external sorting (sorted data is spilled to disk instead of in\-memory sorting), the memory consumption is reduced at the expense of execution speed.

`Grace hash` is one of the three non\-memory bound join algorithms that temporarily spill data to disk to reduce memory consumption. In contrast to the other two algorithms \- `full sorting merge` and `partial merge` \- grace hash allows one to control its memory usage based on the configured amount of [buckets](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-hash-joins-part2#description-2). We were interested in comparing the join speed of grace hash when it uses approximately the same and less memory amount as the other two non\-memory bound algorithms. For this we run grace hash with three different [bucket amounts](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/23.5/src/Core/Settings.h#L759). In run ⑥ with 4 buckets, we aligned the grace hash memory usage with the `full sorting merge` run ⑤. In this case, the grace hash was slower than the full sorting merge for joining our two example tables. In run ⑦ with 8 buckets we aligned the memory usage approximately with the `partial merge` run in ⑨. Here the grace hash run is two times faster. An additional run ⑧ with 32 buckets reduced the memory usage below the partial merge runs while still running faster.

For joining our example tables, the `partial merge` runs (see ⑨ and ⑩) are the slowest. [Remember](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-full-sort-partial-merge-part3#partial-merge-join) that the partial merge join fully sorts the right table and stores their sorted blocks, together with min\-max index files temporarily to disk first. It then sorts and compares each block from the left table with the sorted blocks from the right table on disk while utilizing the min\-max indexes for skipping non\-matching blocks. For our example tables this is memory efficient but slow. Especially in run ⑩ when the physical row order of the left table [doesn’t](https://pastebin.com/G6XDueBR) match the join key sorting order.

Generally, we can see that explicitly sorting the tables prior to identifying join matches is more expensive regarding execution time than just building hash tables from one of the tables.
