---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/gunnarmorling/1brc
topic: clickhouse-and-the-one-trillion-row-challenge
ch_version_introduced: '0.2441'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

\- all for $0\.56! > For those curious, if this data is loaded into a MergeTree, the query can be answered in 16 seconds! This incurs a load time, which we consider cheating, however :) ## Dataset [\#](/blog/clickhouse-1-trillion-row-challenge#dataset)

The structure of the data provided by Dask is consistent with the original challenge, with a city and temperature column. As discussed in their original blog, data of this size requires a format offering better compression than the CSV used for the 1 billion row challenge. They, therefore, provide the data in Parquet format in the following requester\-pays bucket, i.e., users downloading this will need to provide an access key for AWS and incur transfer charges.

`s3://coiled-datasets-rp/1trc`

However, provided we ensure our ClickHouse cluster is deployed in the same region as this bucket (`us-east-1`) we can avoid data transfer charges while also optimizing the network bandwidth and latency.

The full dataset consists of 2\.4TiB of parquet files available as 100k files, each with 10m rows at around 23\-24MiB.

## Querying in place [\#](/blog/clickhouse-1-trillion-row-challenge#querying-in-place)

Frequently accessed datasets can be loaded into an analytical database like ClickHouse for fast queries. But for infrequently used datasets, it’s sometimes helpful to leave them in a “lake house” like S3 and have the ability to run ad\-hoc analytical queries on them in place. In the AWS ecosystem, users may be familiar with technologies such as Amazon Athena, which offers the ability to analyze data directly in Amazon S3 using standard SQL.

> Technologies capable of querying both lakehouses and performing as a real\-time analytical database can be considered [real\-time data warehouses](https://clickhouse.com/blog/the-unbundling-of-the-cloud-data-warehouse).

ClickHouse offers both of these capabilities. For the purposes of our challenge, we only need to execute this query once. As noted in our [1 billion row challenge results](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-one-billion-row-challenge), while the final query will be faster once the data has been loaded into ClickHouse, the actual load time will offset any benefit. We, therefore, utilize ClickHouse's [s3 function](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/table-functions/s3) to query the data "in\-place".

```
SELECT
    count() as num_rows,
    uniqExact(_file) as num_files
FROM s3('https://coiled-datasets-rp.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/1trc/measurements-*.parquet', 'AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID', 'AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY', headers('x-amz-request-payer' = 'requester'))

┌──────num_rows─┬─num_files─┐
│ 1000000000000 │    100000 │
└───────────────┴───────────┘

```

As a simple example, we can confirm the total number of rows and files with a simple query.
