---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/gunnarmorling/1brc
topic: clickhouse-and-the-one-trillion-row-challenge
ch_version_introduced: '0.2441'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

as num_rows, uniqExact(_file) as num_files FROM s3('https://coiled-datasets-rp.s3.us-east-1.amazonaws.com/1trc/measurements-*.parquet', 'AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID', 'AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY', headers('x-amz-request-payer' = 'requester')) ┌──────num_rows─┬─num_files─┐ │ 1000000000000 │ 100000 │ └───────────────┴───────────┘ ``` As a simple example, we can confirm the total number of rows and files with a simple query.

> To access a requester\-pays bucket, a header `'x-amz-request-payer' = 'requester'` must be passed in any requests. This is achieved in the above call by passing the parameter `headers('x-amz-request-payer' = 'requester')` to the s3 function.

## A simple query [\#](/blog/clickhouse-1-trillion-row-challenge#a-simple-query)

Our previous query for the 1 billion row challenge contained a few optimizations to minimize string formatting and to ensure the data was returned in the correct format. Thanks to the Parquet format, we aren’t required to do any string parsing. Our query is, therefore, a simple `GROUP BY`.

## Minimizing AWS costs [\#](/blog/clickhouse-1-trillion-row-challenge#minimizing-aws-costs)

To keep costs to an absolute minimum for our query, we can exploit [AWS’ spot instances](https://aws.amazon.com/ec2/spot/). These instance types allow you to use spare EC2 compute for which you can bid (a minimum spot price is set) through the AWS API. While potentially, these instances can be interrupted and reclaimed by AWS (e.g., if the spot price exceeds the bid), they come at up to a 90% discount. For current spot prices, we recommend this [resource](https://instances.vantage.sh) from Vantage.

> These spot prices are not as linear for each instance type, unlike on\-demand pricing. For example, at the time of writing, a [c7g.xlarge](https://instances.vantage.sh/aws/ec2/c7g.xlarge) with four vCPUs is $0\.0693 per hour (\> 50% cheaper than on demand), which is more than ½ the price of a [c7g.2xlarge](https://instances.vantage.sh/aws/ec2/c7g.2xlarge) with eight cores at $0\.1157\. Long\-term trends in supply and demand for EC2 spare capacity ultimately determine prices.

The next challenge was to minimize the time any instances were active. We need to:

1. Claim our instances and wait for them to be available \- usually around 30s
2. Install ClickHouse and configure to form a cluster
3. Run the query
4. Immediately stop the instances.

This is a simplification of what needs to be done and doesn’t consider the need to configure supporting AWS resources, including a VPC, subnet, internet gateway, and an appropriate security group such that instances can communicate with each other.
