---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/gunnarmorling/1brc
topic: clickhouse-and-the-one-trillion-row-challenge
ch_version_introduced: '0.2441'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

way a substitute for proper provisioning code for a production ClickHouse cluster. We accepted some compromises given the ephemeral nature of the instances (less than 5 mins) but which would be severely limiting in a production cluster. Specifically:

- We don’t provision any storage as we query the data in place in S3\.
- While access is limited to the IP from which the Pulumi code was run, the cluster is exposed over HTTP on port 8213 so we can run the required query. For the period the cluster is alive, this represents a minimal risk, but the lack of SSL would not be recommended for production environments. Our network settings for inter\-instance communication are also too loose.
- The configuration of the cluster is extremely limited, with no consideration given to the need to modify, expand, or upgrade the cluster. Our ClickHouse configurations are also minimal and not customizable.
- Zero tests were performed, and no consideration is given to extensibility.
- We don’t handle potential spot [interruptions](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/spot-best-practices.html#prep-instances-for-interruptions) that are always possible on AWS with spot instances. We also assume a homogeneous set of instance types (which is against [AWS best practices](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/spot-best-practices.html#be-instance-type-flexible)) since this makes things easier to reason about and test.

While limited, the above script does allow us to spin up ClickHouse clusters cheaply, run a query, and destroy the infrastructure immediately. This ephemeral cluster deployment can be used to run queries that might otherwise be computationally out of reach for a laptop. For example, to run 32 instances of a [`c7g.4xlarge`](https://instances.vantage.sh/aws/ec2/c7g.4xlarge) (16 cores, 32GiB RAM) for 5 minutes, we would pay approximately `0.2441 * (5/60) * 32 = $0.65` \- ClickHouse can query a lot of data in S3 with this amount of resources!

## Choosing an AWS instance type [\#](/blog/clickhouse-1-trillion-row-challenge#choosing-an-aws-instance-type)

Before performing any testing and query tuning we wanted to identify an instance type, mainly to avoid an exhaustive set of tests which would prove time consuming. We based this on simple reasoning with the aim of producing a competitive result without expending enormous resources to find the perfect hardware profile.
