---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/8ab5270ded39c8b044f60f73c1de00c8117ab8f2/src/Interpreters/Aggregator.cpp#L382
topic: queries-syntax-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '8.888'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 42
total_chunks_in_doc: 117
---

``` SELECT column_n, count() FROM modify_column GROUP BY column_n; ``` 4. Apply the Correct Column Modification Now that the column is accessible, you can safely reapply the ALTER query, but this time include all the required enum values:

```
ALTER TABLE modify_column MODIFY COLUMN column_n Enum8('key_a'=1, 'key_b'=2, 'key_c'=3);

```
5. Monitor Progress
You can monitor the progress of the column modification using the system.mutations or system.parts\_columns tables to ensure everything proceeds as expected:

To track mutation progress:

```
SELECT
    command,
    parts_to_do,
    is_done
FROM system.mutations
WHERE table = 'modify_column';

```
To review the column’s active parts:

```
SELECT
    column,
    type,
    count() AS parts,
    sum(rows) AS rows,
    sum(bytes_on_disk) AS bytes
FROM system.parts_columns
WHERE (table = 'modify_column') AND (column = 'column_n') AND active
GROUP BY
    column,
    type;

```
# 13 \- ANSI SQL mode

ANSI SQL modeTo make ClickHouse® more compatible with ANSI SQL standards (at the expense of some performance), you can adjust several settings. These configurations will bring ClickHouse closer to ANSI SQL behavior but may introduce a slowdown in query performance:

```
join_use_nulls=1

```
Introduced in: early versions
Ensures that JOIN operations return NULL for non\-matching rows, aligning with standard SQL behavior.

```
cast_keep_nullable=1

```
Introduced in: v20\.5
Preserves the NULL flag when casting between data types, which is typical in ANSI SQL.

```
union_default_mode='DISTINCT'

```
Introduced in: v21\.1
Makes the UNION operation default to UNION DISTINCT, which removes duplicate rows, following ANSI SQL behavior.

```
allow_experimental_window_functions=1

```
Introduced in: v21\.3
Enables support for window functions, which are a standard feature in ANSI SQL.

```
prefer_column_name_to_alias=1

```
Introduced in: v21\.4
This setting resolves ambiguities by preferring column names over aliases, following ANSI SQL conventions.

```
group_by_use_nulls=1

```
Introduced in: v22\.7
Allows NULL values to appear in the GROUP BY clause, consistent with ANSI SQL behavior.

By enabling these settings, ClickHouse becomes more ANSI SQL\-compliant, although this may come with a trade\-off in terms of performance. Each of these options can be enabled as needed, based on the specific SQL compatibility requirements of your application.

# 14 \- Async INSERTs

Comprehensive guide to ClickHouse Async INSERTs \- configuration, best practices, and monitoring## Overview
