---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/integrations/glue
topic: announcing-the-clickhouse-connector-for-aws-glue
ch_version_introduced: '4.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

12 id BIGINT NOT NULL COMMENT 'sort key', 13 name STRING 14 ) USING ClickHouse 15 TBLPROPERTIES ( 16 engine = 'MergeTree()', 17 order_by = 'id' 18 ); 19 """ 20) ``` ``` DDL operations using Spark SQL

Note: We currently do not support sending multiple statements in a single method call. You will need to break these into individual calls.

### Writing data to ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickhouse-connector-aws-glue#writing-data-to-clickhouse)

We will import Row from `pyspark.sql` to create our dataframe and populate it with employee data. It’s trivial to write data from Dataframes into ClickHouse; the simplest method is to use the `writeTo` method introduced in Spark 3 with the introduction of the `DataFrameWriteV2` API.

```

```
1from pyspark.sql import Row
2
3# Create DataFrame
4data = [
5    Row(id=6, name="Mark"), 
6    Row(id=19, name="LAEG"),
7    Row(id=50, name="Jim"),
8    Row(id=71, name="Ian"),
9    Row(id=12, name="APCJ"),
10    Row(id=11, name="Peter"),
11    Row(id=71, name="Eva"),
12    Row(id=17, name="Jonny"),
13    Row(id=40, name="Anthony"),
14    Row(id=55, name="Petra"),
15    Row(id=42, name="Nigel"),
16    Row(id=48, name="BBC"),
17]
18df = spark.createDataFrame(data)
19
20# Write DataFrame to ClickHouse
21df.writeTo("clickhouse.default.glue_job_example")
22    .append()
```

```

Writing a Dataframe into a simple table in ClickHouse

### Aggregating data sources before writing data to ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickhouse-connector-aws-glue#aggregating-data-sources-before-writing-data-to-clickhouse)

If we wanted to do some preprocessing and merge two sets of data to create a wide table within ClickHouse, we could use Spark to read from disparate data sources. Below is a pseudo example of taking a dataframe, reading data from S3, and creating summaries before ingesting into ClickHouse.

```

```
1# Read from multiple sources
2first_df = ...
3    
4# Maybe we need to read from another datasource like S3
5second_df = spark.read.parquet("s3://.../")
6    
7# We can join and create aggregated summaries before ingesting the data into ClickHouse
8combined_df = first_df 
9    .join(second_df, "column_to_join_on") 
10    .groupBy("column_to_group_by_1", "column_to_group_by_2") 
11    .agg(
12        sum("column_to_sum").alias("sum_column_name"),
13        count("column_to_count").alias("count_of_entries_column"),
14        avg("column_to_average").alias("avg_column_name")
15    )
16    
17# Write 
18df.writeTo("clickhouse.database_name.table_name")
19  .append()
```

```

Combining dataframes before writing to ClickHouse

### Reading data from ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickhouse-connector-aws-glue#reading-data-from-clickhouse)

You can read data from Clickhouse directly into a dataframe using the `spark.sql` method. Here we’re just going to read all the data we’ve ingested in the previous step by using a simple select query and logging it to the output.
