---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/clickhouse-docs/blob/main/docs/best-practices/use_materialized_views.md)#
topic: use-materialized-views-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

table. By computing results incrementally at insert\-time, queries run against significantly smaller data subsets, allowing these views to scale effortlessly even to petabytes of data. In most cases they will have no appreciable impact on overall cluster performance.

Use incremental materialized views when:

- You require real\-time query results updated with every insert.
- You're aggregating or filtering large volumes of data frequently.
- Your queries involve straightforward transformations or aggregations on single tables.

For examples of incremental materialized views see [here](/docs/materialized-view/incremental-materialized-view).

## When to use refreshable materialized views[​](#when-to-use-refreshable-materialized-views "Direct link to When to use refreshable materialized views")

Refreshable materialized views execute their queries periodically rather than incrementally, storing the query result set for rapid retrieval.

They're most useful when query performance is critical (e.g. sub\-millisecond latency) and slightly stale results are acceptable. Since the query is re\-run in full, refreshable views are best suited to queries that are either relatively fast to compute or which can be computed at infrequent intervals (e.g. hourly), such as caching “top N” results or lookup tables.

Execution frequency should be tuned carefully to avoid excessive load on the system. Extremely complex queries which consume significant resources should be scheduled cautiously — these can cause overall cluster performance to degrade by impacting caches and consuming CPU and memory. The query should run relatively quickly compared to the refresh interval to avoid overloading your cluster. For example, don't schedule a view to be updated every 10 seconds if the query itself takes at least 10 seconds to compute.

## Summary[​](#summary "Direct link to Summary")

In summary, use refreshable materialized views when:

- You need cached query results available instantly, and minor delays in freshness are acceptable.
- You need the top N for a query result set.
- The size of the result set doesn't grow unbounded over time. This will cause performance of the target view to degrade.
- You're performing complex joins or denormalization involving multiple tables, requiring updates whenever any source table changes.
- You're building batch workflows, denormalization tasks, or creating view dependencies similar to DBT DAGs.

For examples of refreshable materialized views see [here](/docs/materialized-view/refreshable-materialized-view).

### APPEND vs REPLACE mode[​](#append-vs-replace-mode "Direct link to APPEND vs REPLACE mode")
