---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: clickhouse-cloud-updates-gcp-beta-api-support-s3-iam-roles-and-more
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

PM CEST Register [here](/company/events/clickhouse-workshop?loc=blog-may-nl). **ClickHouse Cloud Onboarding** June 22 @ 6 AM PDT / 9 AM EDT / 3 PM CEST Register [here](/company/events/clickhouse-workshop?loc=blog-may-nl). ## Reading List [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-updates-gcp-beta-api-support-s3-iam-roles-and-more#reading-list) Some of our favorite reads that you may have missed include:

1. **Vector Search with ClickHouse** \- [Part 1](/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p1) and [Part 2](/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p2) \- Over the past year, Large Language Models (LLMs) along with products like ChatGPT have captured the world's imagination and have been driving a new wave of functionality built on top of them. The concept of vectors and vector search is core to powering features like recommendations, question answering, image / video search, and much more.
2. [ClickHouse: A Blazingly Fast DBMS with Full SQL Join Support \- Under the Hood \- Part 3](/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-part3) \- We’ll continue the exploration of the ClickHouse join algorithms in this post and describe the two algorithms from the chart above that are based on external sorting: Full sorting merge join, Partial merge join. Both algorithms are non\-memory bound and use a join strategy that requires the joined data to first be sorted in order of the join keys before join matches can be identified.
3. [ClickHouse: A Blazingly Fast DBMS with Full SQL Join Support \- Under the Hood \- Part 3](/blog/clickhouse-fully-supports-joins-part3) \- We’ll continue the exploration of the ClickHouse join algorithms in this post and describe the two algorithms from the chart above that are based on external sorting: Full sorting merge join, Partial merge join. Both algorithms are non\-memory bound and use a join strategy that requires the joined data to first be sorted in order of the join keys before join matches can be identified.
4. [OONI Powers its Measurement of Internet Censorship with ClickHouse](/blog/ooni-analyzes-internet-censorship-data-with-clickhouse) \- The Open Observatory of Network Interference (OONI) is a non\-profit free software project that empowers decentralized efforts in documenting internet censorship worldwide. OONI provides free software tools for users to test their internet connection quality, detect censorship, and measure network interference. These tests can reveal blocked or restricted websites, apps, or services and help identify technical censorship methods. OONI uses ClickHouse for handling large volumes of data, as its data storage and analytics engine.
5. [Adding Real Time Analytics to a Supabase Application With ClickHouse](/blog/adding-real-time-analytics-to-a-supabase-application) \- At ClickHouse, we are often asked how ClickHouse compares to Postgres and for what workloads it should be used. With our friends at Supabase introducing Foreign Data Wrappers (FDW) for their Postgres offering, we decided to use the opportunity to revisit this topic with a webinar early last week. As well as explaining the differences between an OLTP database, such as Postgres, and an OLAP database, such as ClickHouse, we explored when you should use each for an application. And what better way to convey these ideas than with a demo that uses both capabilities?
6. [Optimizing usage\-based pricing for infrastructure SaaS](https://medium.com/@tbragin/optimizing-usage-based-pricing-for-infrastructure-saas-83b6cec92d49) \- Are you building a SaaS offering and at the stage of determining pricing? Or are you interested in the approach that we took to build out our own pricing model for ClickHouse Cloud? Tanya Bragin, ClickHouse VP of Product, shares her learnings and tips\-and\-tricks in this post.
