---
source: blog
url: https://www.ookla.com/ookla-for-good/open-data
topic: exploring-global-internet-speeds-using-apache-iceberg-and-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.216'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

into this in the 2nd half of the blog; for now, we’ll complete our simple examples with an aggregation computing the average number of devices per polygon and the median, 90th, 99th, and 99\.9th quantiles for download speed.

```
SELECT
    round(avg(devices), 2) AS avg_devices,
    arrayMap(m -> round(m / 1000), quantiles(0.5, 0.9, 0.99, 0.999)(avg_d_kbps)) AS download_mbps
FROM iceberg('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/ookla/iceberg/')

┌─avg_devices─┬─download_mbps────┐
│   	 5.64 │ [51,249,502,762] │
└─────────────┴──────────────────┘

1 row in set. Elapsed: 4.704 sec. Processed 128.01 million rows, 3.75 GB (27.21 million rows/s., 797.63 MB/s.)
Peak memory usage: 22.89 MiB.

```

The above provides some simple examples of how their real\-time data warehouse might function: cold Iceberg storage in the lake house and hot queries for real\-time analytics in ClickHouse.

### A few limitations [\#](/blog/exploring-global-internet-speeds-with-apache-iceberg-clickhouse#a-few-limitations)

The above represents some very simple queries. Before we dive into a deeper topic of how to visualize this data, it's worth highlighting some of the areas where further improvement is required (and planned) for ClickHouse's Iceberg support.

- Currently, ClickHouse will not read Iceberg files that have [row\-based deletes](https://iceberg.apache.org/spec/) (v2\) or whose [schema has evolved](https://iceberg.apache.org/docs/latest/evolution/). The user will receive a read exception in these cases unless they [explicitly request it is ignored](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#iceberg_engine_ignore_schema_evolution).
- During query evaluation, ClickHouse doesn't currently exploit partitions to prune the data scanned. This represents a significant possibility for improving query execution and aligns with the [recent improvements made to Parquet](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-release-23-07).
- The current implementation is bound to S3\. In the future, we expect this coupling to be removed, with support added for any object storage supported by ClickHouse.
- Similar to ClickHouse's ordering key, Iceberg supports the ability to sort data. By ensuring data files within the Iceberg table are split and sorted, queries can potentially skip files during execution. This has the potential to further reduce the data scanned, improving performance.

## Exploring the data [\#](/blog/exploring-global-internet-speeds-with-apache-iceberg-clickhouse#exploring-the-data)

With the basics out of the way, let's pivot this blog slightly and explore the Ookla data in a little more detail with the objective of visualizing internet speeds with just SQL.

### Reading and enriching [\#](/blog/exploring-global-internet-speeds-with-apache-iceberg-clickhouse#reading-and-enriching)
