---
source: blog
url: https://www.ookla.com/ookla-for-good/open-data
topic: exploring-global-internet-speeds-using-apache-iceberg-and-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.216'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

familiarity and expertise. Given that the SVG format is inherently a vector\-based format capable of rendering polygons, maybe we can just convert these polygons to an SVG to provide a 2D visualization of the data as a map?

This requires a means of converting each polygon to an [SVG polygon entry](https://www.w3schools.com/graphics/svg_polygon.asp). Ideally, we’d also be able to set the style of each polygon to convey a metric, e.g., download speed. As ever, the community had already thought of this problem with ClickHouse providing the [SVG function](https://clickhouse.com/docs//sql-reference/functions/geo/svg)!

This allows us to convert a Polygon in ClickHouse to an SVG polygon, as well as passing a style:

```
SELECT SVG([(-160.037841796875, 70.6363054807905), (-160.032348632812, 70.6363054807905), (-160.032348632812, 70.6344840663086), (-160.037841796875, 70.6344840663086), (-160.037841796875, 70.6363054807905)], 'fill: rgb(255, 55,38);') AS svg FORMAT Vertical

Row 1:
──────
svg: <polygon points="-160.038,70.6363 -160.032,70.6363 -160.032,70.6345 -160.038,70.6345 -160.038,70.6363" style="fill: rgb(255, 55,38);"/>

1 row in set. Elapsed: 0.002 sec.

```

### Points to Pixels [\#](/blog/exploring-global-internet-speeds-with-apache-iceberg-clickhouse#points-to-pixels)

While the above is promising, we can't simply use coordinates as our latitudes and longitudes if visualizing as a 2d map. The coordinates represent positions on a three\-dimensional surface, i.e., the Earth's surface, and not a 2d surface. A number of techniques, known as projections, exist for converting latitude and longitudes to points on 2d surfaces such as a map or a computer screen. This process inevitably involves some compromise or distortion in the representation of the Earth's surface because it's impossible to flatten a sphere without stretching or compressing its surface in some way.

A popular projection often used for maps is the [Mercator projector](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mercator_projection). This has a number of advantages; principally, it preserves angles and shapes at a local scale, making it an excellent choice for navigation. It also has the advantage that constant bearings (directions of travel) are straight lines, making navigating simple. Finally, while the Mercator projection accurately represents areas near the equator, it significantly distorts size and shape as one moves toward the poles. Landmasses like Greenland and Antarctica appear much larger than they are in reality compared to equatorial regions.

While ClickHouse doesn't have a Mercator function built in, we can solve this with another SQL UDF. Here, we project our point into a pixel space with dimensions 1024x1024\.
