---
source: blog
url: https://www.ookla.com/ookla-for-good/open-data
topic: exploring-global-internet-speeds-using-apache-iceberg-and-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.216'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

rows, 8.06 GB (275.15 million rows/s., 5.78 GB/s.) Peak memory usage: 39.54 MiB. ``` Despite just assembling the above concepts, there is a lot going on here. We’ve commented on the SQL, which hopefully helps, but in summary:

- We declare constants such as the color gradient (lc \= yellow, uc \= red) and the image height in the first CTE.
- For each country, we use the `country_polygons` dictionary to compute the average speed, similar to our earlier query.
- For the above values, we determine the maximum and minimum internet speeds. These are used to generate color for each country, using a simple [linear interpolation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linear_interpolation) between our color ranges.
- For each country, using its name, we use the reverse dictionary `country_names` to obtain the polygon. These polygons are complex, with many internal holes represented as Rings. We thus need to use nested `arrayMap` functions to project them using the Mercator projection function.
- Finally, we convert the project country polygons to SVG using the SVG function and RGB values. This is output to a local file using the INTO OUTFILE clause.

### Summarizing using h3 indexes [\#](/blog/exploring-global-internet-speeds-with-apache-iceberg-clickhouse#summarizing-using-h3-indexes)

While the above query proves the concept of rendering SVGs from our geographical data, it is too coarse in its summarization. Visualizing internet speeds by country is interesting but only slightly builds on the earlier query, which listed internet speeds by country.

We could aim to populate our `country_polygons` dictionary with larger polygons from [public sources](https://www.google.com/search?q=polygons+earth&oq=polygons+earth+&gs_lcrp=EgZjaHJvbWUyDAgAEEUYDxgWGB4YOTIICAEQABgWGB4yCAgCEAAYFhgeMg0IAxAAGIYDGIAEGIoFMg0IBBAAGIYDGIAEGIoFMg0IBRAAGIYDGIAEGIoFMg0IBhAAGIYDGIAEGIoF0gEINjM5MWowajSoAgCwAgA&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8). However, this seems a little restrictive, and ideally, we would be able to generate our vectors by a specified resolution, which controls the same of the polygons we render.

[H3](https://eng.uber.com/h3/) is a geographical indexing system developed by Uber, where the Earth's surface is divided into a grid of even hexagonal cells. This system is hierarchical, i.e., each hexagon on the top level ("parent") can be split into seven even smaller ones ("children"), and so on. When using the indexing system, we define a resolution between 0 and 15\. The greater the resolution, the smaller each hexagon and, thus, the greater number required to cover the Earth's surface.

The differences in resolution on the number of polygons can be illustrated with a simple ClickHouse query using the function [h3NumHexagons](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/geo/h3#h3numhexagons), which returns the number of hexagons per resolution.
