---
source: blog
url: https://www.ookla.com/ookla-for-good/open-data
topic: exploring-global-internet-speeds-using-apache-iceberg-and-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.216'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 16
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

million rows, 8.06 GB (38.02 million rows/s., 798.38 MB/s.) Peak memory usage: 23.73 MiB. ``` Aside from the conversion of the centroids to h3 indexes and their aggregation, there are a few other interesting parts of this query:

- We extract the longitudes into a separate array, and the first entry is also appended to the end. I.e. `arrayMap(x -> (x.2), arrayConcat(h3ToGeoBoundary(h3), [h3ToGeoBoundary(h3)[1]]))`. This allows us to examine consecutive pairs of longitudinal points and filter out those which cross the 180 meridian (these render as lines ruining our visual) i.e. `WHERE arrayExists(i -> (abs((longs[i]) - (longs[i + 1])) > 180), range(1, length(longs) + 1)) = 0`
- Rather than using an RGB color gradient, we’ve opted to use Oklch. This offers several [advantages of RGB](https://evilmartians.com/chronicles/oklch-in-css-why-quit-rgb-hsl) (and HSL), delivering more expected results and smoother gradients while being easier to generate as only one dimension (hue) needs to be changed for our palette. Above our palette goes from red (low bandwidth) to green (high bandwidth), with a square root gradient between 30 and 144 hues. The `sqrt` here gives us a more even distribution of values, which are naturally clustered if linear, allowing us to differentiate regions. Our use of the 95th percentile for 144 also helps here.

### Rasterizing as an alternative [\#](/blog/exploring-global-internet-speeds-with-apache-iceberg-clickhouse#rasterizing-as-an-alternative)

The h3 index approach above is flexible and realistic for rendering images based on a resolution of up to around 7\. Values higher than this produce files that can’t be rendered by most browsers, e.g., 7 and 8 produce a file size of 600MB (just about renders!) and 1\.85GB. The absence of data for some geographical regions (e.g. Africa) also becomes more apparent at these higher resolutions as the polygons for each centroid become smaller, i.e. more space is simply empty.

An alternative to this approach is to [rasterize the image](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rasterisation), generating a pixel for each centroid instead of a polygon. This approach is potentially also more flexible as when we specify the desired resolution (through the Mercator) function, this will map directly to the number of pixels used to represent our centroids. The data representation should also be smaller on disk for the same equivalent number of polygons.
