---
source: blog
url: https://www.ookla.com/ookla-for-good/open-data
topic: exploring-global-internet-speeds-using-apache-iceberg-and-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.216'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 19
---

specify the desired resolution (through the Mercator) function, this will map directly to the number of pixels used to represent our centroids. The data representation should also be smaller on disk for the same equivalent number of polygons.

The principle of this approach is simple. We project each centroid using our Mercator function, specifying a resolution and rounding the x and y values. Each of these x and y pairs represents a pixel, for which we can compute a statistic such as the average download rate using a simple `GROUP BY.` The following computes the average download rate per x,y pixel (for a resolution of 2048 x2048\) using this approach, returning the pixels in row and column order.

```
SELECT
	(y * 2048) + x AS pos,
	avg(avg_d_kbps) AS download_speed
FROM ookla
GROUP BY
	round(mercator(centroid, 2048, 2048).1) AS x,
	round(mercator(centroid, 2048, 2048).2) AS y
ORDER BY pos ASC WITH FILL FROM 0 TO 2048 * 2048

```

Using the same approaches described above, the following query computes a color gradient using the min and max range of the download speed, outputting an RGBA value for each pixel. Below, we fix the alpha channel to 255 and use a linear function for our color gradient with the 95th percentile as our upper bound (to help compress our gradient). In this case, we use the query to create a view `ookla_as_pixels` to simplify the next step of visualizing this data. Note we use a background color of (17, 17, 17, 255\) to represent those pixels with a null value for the download speed, i.e. no data points, and ensure our RGBA values are UInt8s.
