---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://altinity.com/blog/clickhouse-replacingmergetree-explained-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly
topic: upsert-by-versionedcollapsingmergetree-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '100.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

# UPSERT by VersionedCollapsingMergeTree \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Engines](/engines/)
2. [MergeTree table engine family](/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/)
3. VersionedCollapsingMT
# UPSERT by VersionedCollapsingMergeTree

How to aggregate mutating event stream with duplicates### Challenges with mutated data

When you have an incoming event stream with duplicates, updates, and deletes, building a consistent row state inside the ClickHouse® table is a big challenge.

The UPDATE/DELETE approach in the OLTP world won’t help with OLAP databases tuned to handle big batches. UPDATE/DELETE operations in ClickHouse are executed as “mutations,” rewriting a lot of data and being relatively slow. You can’t run such operations very often, as for OLTP databases. But the UPSERT operation (insert and replace) runs fast with the ReplacingMergeTree Engine. It’s even set as the default mode for INSERT without any special keyword. We can emulate UPDATE (or even DELETE) with the UPSERT operation.

There are a lot of [blog posts](https://altinity.com/blog/clickhouse-replacingmergetree-explained-the-good-the-bad-and-the-ugly)
on how to use ReplacingMergeTree Engine to handle mutated data streams. A properly designed table schema with ReplacingMergeTree Engine is a good instrument for building the DWH Dimensions table. But when maintaining metrics in Fact tables, there are several problems:

- it’s not possible to use a valuable ClickHouse feature \- online aggregation of incoming data by Materialized Views or Projections on top of the ReplacingMT table, because duplicates and updates will not be deduplicated by the engine during inserts, and calculated aggregates (like sum or count) will be incorrect. For significant amounts of data, it’s become critical because aggregating raw data during report queries will take too much time.
- unfinished support for DELETEs. While in the newest versions of ClickHouse, it’s possible to add the is\_deleted to ReplacingMergeTree parameters, the necessity of manually filtering out deleted rows after FINAL processing makes that feature less useful.
- Mutated data should be localized to the same partition. If the “replacing” row is saved to a partition different from the previous one, the report query will be much slower or produce unexpected results.
