---
source: blog
url: https://www.huntress.com/
topic: siem-made-simpler-how-huntress-improved-performance-and-slashed-costs-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

companies like Huntress to develop custom parsers and schemas to standardize and make the data usable. As data volumes surge, the costs associated with processing and storing it also increase, making it difficult to maintain efficiency and affordability.

For Huntress, the standard SIEM challenges are amplified by the needs of their customers — SMBs with limited IT resources. “They don’t have big budgets or internal security teams, and yet they need a lot of the same things as larger enterprises,” Chris says of Huntress’s customers. “So there’s gotta be a trade\-off somewhere. It’s our job to figure that part out.”

To provide customers with the same level of 24/7 monitoring and proactive threat protection as enterprise companies, Huntress needed a more efficient database management system that could process logs from millions of endpoints while keeping costs in check. Adding to the pressure was an ambitious timeline of improving their SIEM solution in 6\-8 months.

“A lot of people said it couldn’t be done,” Chris says. “But we did it anyway.”

## In search of a better database [\#](/blog/how-huntress-improved-performance-and-slashed-costs-with-clickHouse#in-search-of-a-better-database)

Chris and the team kicked off a search for a database that could handle their growing data volumes without driving costs through the roof. They began by exploring familiar options, including Elasticsearch, which they had used before. But while Elasticsearch offered strong search capabilities, scaling it for Huntress’s workload was, in Chris’s words, “super expensive,” costing upwards of $70,000 per month. They also considered Postgres, but as Chris explains, “The problem there is, if you want to scale it, you’ve got to have multiple individual Postgres databases,” which added unwanted complexity and increased costs.

Microsoft Sentinel, another contender, was briefly evaluated for its ability to manage large data volumes. For Huntress, however, building their SIEM on an existing solution like Sentinel offered little opportunity for differentiation. It was important to keep a competitive edge by creating a unique system tailored to their needs, rather than relying on a pre\-built solution.
