---
source: blog
url: https://discover.clickhouse.com/newsletter.html?utm_medium=email&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_campaign=newsletter
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-march-2023-contributing-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.032'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

format is increasingly popular and has rapidly become an industry standard for managing data in data lakes. Iceberg brings SQL table\-like functionality to files in a data lake in an open and accessible manner. **Support for Correlation Matrices**

In 23\.2, we add support for computing correlation matrices. As a reminder, a correlation matrix is a table that contains the correlation coefficient between all possible values in a table. This represents an easy way to summarise a large dataset and identify columns that are either strongly or negatively correlated.

## Query of the Month \- “Contributing to ClickHouse” [\#](/blog/newsletter_2023_march#query-of-the-month---contributing-to-clickhouse)

Real\-time analytics is an important, and perhaps often misunderstood, concept. Real\-time can imply at the point of ingestion, at the point of transformation, at the point of application interaction, or…importantly…at the point of interest.   

We found ourselves interested, in the last week, about the number of contributors (over time) to the various ClickHouse repositories. And, also the number of unique users per month. The query itself turned out to be quite interesting.   

This is a little challenging as we want the cumulative unique users, not just the unique number per month. To achieve this, we first generate an array of the unique contributors grouped by month (`uniq_users`) via the aggregate function `groupArrayDistinct` (see our [recent blog post](https://clickhouse.com/blog/aggregate-functions-combinators-in-clickhouse-for-arrays-maps-and-states) on aggregate functions). A window function in turn groups these monthly arrays and produces an array of the distinct contributors so far for each month. Finally an outer query identifies the unique number of values in each column.

The query itself is fairly direct and shown below (and also available for perusing on [ClickHouse Play)](https://sql.clickhouse.com?query_id=KIZPJXDYG1QB6DQDFSAVIE).
