---
source: blog
url: https://discover.clickhouse.com/newsletter.html?utm_medium=email&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_campaign=newsletter
topic: clickhouse-newsletter-march-2023-contributing-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.032'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

343.05 MB/s.) [✎](https://sql.clickhouse.com?query_id=7YB4Q9HMD22ZV7VQWBFREA) ``` So array functions, aggregate combinators and state functions all in 2 queries…oh and we saved 8ms…it all adds up. ## Reading List [\#](/blog/newsletter_2023_march#reading-list) Some of our favorite reads that you may have missed include:

1. [Building ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-clickhouse-cloud-from-scratch-in-a-year) \- Have you ever wondered what it takes to build a serverless software as a service (SaaS) offering in under a year? In this blog post, we will describe how we built ClickHouse Cloud – a managed service on top of one of the most popular online analytical processing (OLAP) databases in the world – from the ground up.
2. [Women Who Inspire Us: The Women Pioneers in ClickHouse Community and Company](https://clickhouse.com/blog/women-who-inspire-us-the-women-pioneers-in-clickhouse-community-and-company) \- International Women's Day presents an opportunity to acknowledge and appreciate the countless professional women who are shaping the world in diverse fields, ranging from executives and entrepreneurs to scientists and activists. This day offers a chance to reflect on the progress that has been made towards gender parity, and the work that still remains to be done. It is also about honoring the inspiring women who are breaking barriers and making a difference in their respective industries.
3. [Fintech Leader Juspay Analyzes Over 50 Million Daily Payment Transactions in Real\-Time with ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/juspay-analyzes-payment-transactions-in-real-time-with-clickhouse) \- Juspay, an Indian fintech company, uses ClickHouse to power A/B testing and monitoring for its end\-to\-end payment solutions and real\-time merchant dashboards. With over 50 million daily transactions for clients such as Amazon, Google, and Vodafone, ClickHouse was chosen for its ability to handle large volumes of data.
4. [Handling Updates and Deletes in ClickHouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/handling-updates-and-deletes-in-clickhouse) \- As the world’s fastest database for real\-time analytics, many ClickHouse workloads involve large amounts of data that is written once and not frequently modified (for example, telemetry events generated by IOT devices or customer clicks generated by an e\-commerce website). While these are typically immutable, additional data sets critical to providing context during analytics (e.g., lookup tables with information based on device or customer ID) may require modifications.

In our December NYC meetup, we were excited to have three amazing presentations that showcased the diverse applications of ClickHouse. We couldn't resist sharing them with you again!
