---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/datetime.md)#
topic: datetime-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

# DateTime \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Data types](/docs/sql-reference/data-types)- DateTime
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/datetime.md)# DateTime

Allows to store an instant in time, that can be expressed as a calendar date and a time of a day.

Syntax:

```
DateTime([timezone])

```

Supported range of values: \[1970\-01\-01 00:00:00, 2106\-02\-07 06:28:15].

Resolution: 1 second.

## Speed[​](#speed "Direct link to Speed")

The `Date` data type is faster than `DateTime` under *most* conditions.

The `Date` type requires 2 bytes of storage, while `DateTime` requires 4\. However, during compression, the size difference between Date and DateTime becomes more significant. This amplification is due to the minutes and seconds in `DateTime` being less compressible. Filtering and aggregating `Date` instead of `DateTime` is also faster.

## Usage Remarks[​](#usage-remarks "Direct link to Usage Remarks")

The point in time is saved as a [Unix timestamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unix_time), regardless of the time zone or daylight saving time. The time zone affects how the values of the `DateTime` type values are displayed in text format and how the values specified as strings are parsed ('2020\-01\-01 05:00:01').

Timezone agnostic Unix timestamp is stored in tables, and the timezone is used to transform it to text format or back during data import/export or to make calendar calculations on the values (example: `toDate`, `toHour` functions etc.). The time zone is not stored in the rows of the table (or in resultset), but is stored in the column metadata.

A list of supported time zones can be found in the [IANA Time Zone Database](https://www.iana.org/time-zones) and also can be queried by `SELECT * FROM system.time_zones`. [The list](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) is also available at Wikipedia.

You can explicitly set a time zone for `DateTime`\-type columns when creating a table. Example: `DateTime('UTC')`. If the time zone isn't set, ClickHouse uses the value of the [timezone](/docs/operations/server-configuration-parameters/settings#timezone) parameter in the server settings or the operating system settings at the moment of the ClickHouse server start.

The [clickhouse\-client](/docs/interfaces/client) applies the server time zone by default if a time zone isn't explicitly set when initializing the data type. To use the client time zone, run `clickhouse-client` with the `--use_client_time_zone` parameter.

ClickHouse outputs values depending on the value of the [date\_time\_output\_format](/docs/operations/settings/formats#date_time_output_format) setting. `YYYY-MM-DD hh:mm:ss` text format by default. Additionally, you can change the output with the [formatDateTime](/docs/sql-reference/functions/date-time-functions#formatDateTime) function.
