---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/whats-new/changelog#-clickhouse-release-2311-2023-12-06
topic: clickhouse-release-23-11
ch_version_introduced: '0.057'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

the optimal order in which the filters are executed. With column statistics, ClickHouse is able to estimate the number of matching rows / surviving blocks much more precisely, and therefore, multi\-stage PREWHERE as an optimization becomes more effective.

In the example, ClickHouse utilizes column statistics to automatically determine that the filter condition on column `c2`  is the most selective one, i.e. it drops the most blocks. Therefore, processing starts with `c2`. All blocks from column `c2` are scanned, and the filter predicate is evaluated for each row. Next, the filter evaluation is performed for column `c3`, but only on blocks with rows that had at least one match on the `c2` filter in `c2`’s corresponding blocks. Because the filter condition on column `c1`  is the least selective one, the blocks of this column are processed last. Again, only those blocks are scanned (and the filter predicate is evaluated for each row), where the corresponding blocks from `c2` and `c3` both had predicate matches. From all other columns that need to be scanned and processed for the query run, ClickHouse only needs to scan those blocks from disk where all corresponding PREWHERE columns had predicate matches.

Let’s demonstrate this with a concrete example.

We create an example table and insert 10 million rows:

```
CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE example
(
    `a` Float64,
    `b` Int64,
    `c` Decimal64(4),
    `pk` String
)
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY pk;

INSERT INTO example SELECT
    number,
    number,
    number,
    generateUUIDv4()
FROM system.numbers
LIMIT 10_000_000

```

Next, we run a query with multiple AND\-connected filter conditions in the `WHERE` clause. Note that we disable the `PREWHERE` optimization:

```
SELECT count()
FROM example
WHERE b < 10 AND a < 10 AND c < 10
SETTINGS optimize_move_to_prewhere = 0

┌─count()─┐
│      10 │
└─────────┘

1 row in set. Elapsed: 0.057 sec. Processed 10.00 million rows, 240.00 MB (176.00 million rows/s., 4.22 GB/s.)
Peak memory usage: 162.42 KiB.

```

We can see that the query processed **240 MB** of column data.

Now we run the same query with (multi\-stage) PREWHERE enabled:
