---
source: blog
url: "https://picnic.app/)\u2019s"
topic: how-picnic-uses-clickhouse-for-real-time-analytics-across-20-fulfillment-centers-and-1-million-unique-stores
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

diapers, vegetables, snacks, and treats that fits their life at that moment. “Someone might only want to order vegan food, or maybe someone really likes hamburgers,” he says. “You need to customize this ecommerce experience for everyone individually.”

Not only is that a lot of customer data to parse, the entire experience runs on a tightly orchestrated supply chain. Picnic is a fully integrated operation with highly automated fulfillment centres, each with kilometers of conveyor belts and robot arms picking orders, not to mention a fleet of more than 5,000 trucks handling the last mile. And they don’t just say “we’ll be there in the afternoon.” As Max says, “We promise a specific 20\-minute delivery slot. There’s a lot of data we need to keep track of to make sure we’re there on time.”

At our Open House Roadshow in Amsterdam, Max walked through how Picnic coordinates all of this information across 20\+ fulfillment centers—and how they use [ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.com/cloud) to power a real\-time analytics platform that keeps the entire operation running on schedule.

## Why real\-time matters for Picnic [\#](/blog/picnic-real-time-analytics#why-real-time-matters-for-picnic)

Picnic’s fulfillment centers are unique ecosystems, each with their own layout, product assortment, staffing structure, and quirks. But one thing they all share is *pressure*. Orders need to be picked, packed, loaded, and dispatched fast enough to fit within those specified delivery windows. On the warehouse floor, there’s no shortage of questions: Are we on time or running behind? What products are in stock? What’s out of stock? Who’s working where? Which orders are already in progress, and which ones need attention now?

“You have all these people working to get your orders fulfilled,” Max says. “We need real\-time analytics to make sure that process happens on time.”

For Picnic, the major challenge was scale and variability. From Utrecht to Oberhausen, each warehouse has its own requirements, particularly when it comes to data. “You need a lot of customization to get every warehouse running,” Max says. “It’s not going to be sustainable for a team of engineers to build custom solutions for every single warehouse. Because we’re not working on the warehouse floor, we don’t know exactly what they need.”
