---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/column.md)#
topic: column-manipulations-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

# Column Manipulations \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- [Statements](/docs/sql-reference/statements)- [ALTER](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter)- COLUMN
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/column.md)# Column Manipulations

A set of queries that allow changing the table structure.

Syntax:

```
ALTER [TEMPORARY] TABLE [db].name [ON CLUSTER cluster] ADD|DROP|RENAME|CLEAR|COMMENT|{MODIFY|ALTER}|MATERIALIZE COLUMN ...

```

In the query, specify a list of one or more comma\-separated actions.
Each action is an operation on a column.

The following actions are supported:

- [ADD COLUMN](#add-column) — Adds a new column to the table.
- [DROP COLUMN](#drop-column) — Deletes the column.
- [RENAME COLUMN](#rename-column) — Renames an existing column.
- [CLEAR COLUMN](#clear-column) — Resets column values.
- [COMMENT COLUMN](#comment-column) — Adds a text comment to the column.
- [MODIFY COLUMN](#modify-column) — Changes column's type, default expression, TTL, and column settings.
- [MODIFY COLUMN REMOVE](#modify-column-remove) — Removes one of the column properties.
- [MODIFY COLUMN MODIFY SETTING](#modify-column-modify-setting) \- Changes column settings.
- [MODIFY COLUMN RESET SETTING](#modify-column-reset-setting) \- Reset column settings.
- [MATERIALIZE COLUMN](#materialize-column) — Materializes the column in the parts where the column is missing.
These actions are described in detail below.

## ADD COLUMN[​](#add-column "Direct link to ADD COLUMN")

```
ADD COLUMN [IF NOT EXISTS] name [type] [default_expr] [codec] [AFTER name_after | FIRST]

```

Adds a new column to the table with the specified `name`, `type`, [`codec`](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/table#column_compression_codec) and `default_expr` (see the section [Default expressions](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/table#default_values)).

If the `IF NOT EXISTS` clause is included, the query won't return an error if the column already exists. If you specify `AFTER name_after` (the name of another column), the column is added after the specified one in the list of table columns. If you want to add a column to the beginning of the table use the `FIRST` clause. Otherwise, the column is added to the end of the table. For a chain of actions, `name_after` can be the name of a column that is added in one of the previous actions.

Adding a column just changes the table structure, without performing any actions with data. The data does not appear on the disk after `ALTER`. If the data is missing for a column when reading from the table, it is filled in with default values (by performing the default expression if there is one, or using zeros or empty strings). The column appears on the disk after merging data parts (see [MergeTree](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree)).
