---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/column.md)#
topic: column-manipulations-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

"Direct link to MODIFY COLUMN RESET SETTING") Reset a column setting, also removes the setting declaration in the column expression of the table's CREATE query. Syntax: ``` ALTER TABLE table_name MODIFY COLUMN column_name RESET SETTING name,...; ``` **Example**

Reset column setting `max_compress_block_size` to it's default value:

```
ALTER TABLE table_name MODIFY COLUMN column_name RESET SETTING max_compress_block_size;

```

## MATERIALIZE COLUMN[​](#materialize-column "Direct link to MATERIALIZE COLUMN")

Materializes a column with a `DEFAULT` or `MATERIALIZED` value expression. When adding a materialized column using `ALTER TABLE table_name ADD COLUMN column_name MATERIALIZED`, existing rows without materialized values are not automatically filled. `MATERIALIZE COLUMN` statement can be used to rewrite existing column data after a `DEFAULT` or `MATERIALIZED` expression has been added or updated (which only updates the metadata but does not change existing data). Note that materializing a column in the sort key is an invalid operation because it could break the sort order.
Implemented as a [mutation](/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter#mutations).

For columns with a new or updated `MATERIALIZED` value expression, all existing rows are rewritten.

For columns with a new or updated `DEFAULT` value expression, the behavior depends on the ClickHouse version:

- In ClickHouse \< v24\.2, all existing rows are rewritten.
- ClickHouse \>\= v24\.2 distinguishes if a row value in a column with `DEFAULT` value expression was explicitly specified when it was inserted, or not, i.e. calculated from the `DEFAULT` value expression. If the value was explicitly specified, ClickHouse keeps it as is. If the value was calculated, ClickHouse changes it to the new or updated `MATERIALIZED` value expression.

Syntax:

```
ALTER TABLE [db.]table [ON CLUSTER cluster] MATERIALIZE COLUMN col [IN PARTITION partition | IN PARTITION ID 'partition_id'];

```

- If you specify a PARTITION, a column will be materialized with only the specified partition.

**Example**
