---
source: blog
url: https://twitter.com/auxten
topic: chdb-a-rocket-engine-on-a-bicycle
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

a significant performance gap between chDB and clickhouse\-local in Q23\. It was believed that this difference was due to the fact that when implementing Q23, chDB simplified the process by removing jemalloc. So how did we fix it?

ClickHouse engine includes hundreds of submodules, including heavyweight libraries such as Boost and LLVM. In order to ensure good compatibility and to implement the JIT execution engine, ClickHouse statically links with its own LLVM versions of libc and libc\+\+. This way the binary of ClickHouse can easily guarantee overall link security. However, for chDB, as a shared object (so), this part becomes exceptionally challenging due to several reasons:

1. Python runtime has its own libc. After loading chdb.so, many memory allocation \& management functions that should have been linked to jemalloc in the ClickHouse binary will unavoidably be connected to Python’s built\-in libc through [@plt](https://www.google.com/url?q=https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5469274/what-does-plt-mean-here&sa=D&source=docs&ust=1695312625138735&usg=AOvVaw0Vy7_SIfNSkgtgdBUMFUx4).
2. To solve the above problem, one solution is modifying ClickHouse source code so that all relevant functions are explicitly called with `je_` prefix, such as `je_malloc`, `je_free`. But this approach brings two new problems; one of which can be easily solved.Modifying third\-party library’s malloc calling code would be a huge project. Instead i used a trick when linking with clang\+\+: `-Wl,-wrap,malloc`. For example, during the linking phase, all calls to malloc symbol are redirected to `__wrap_malloc`. You can refer to this piece of code in chDB: [mallocAdapt.c](https://github.com/chdb-io/chdb/blob/main/src/Common/mallocAdapt.c#L23)

It seems like the issue has been resolved, but a real nightmare has emerged. chDB still occasionally crashes on some `je_free` calls. After relentless investigation, it was finally discovered to be an ancient legacy issue with libc:

When writing C code, malloc/calloc is generally paired with free. We will try our best to avoid returning memory allocated on the heap by `malloc` from within a function. This is because it can easily lead to the caller forgetting to call `free`, resulting in memory leaks.

However, due to historical legacy issues, there are certain functions in GNU libc such as [getcwd() and get\_current\_dir\_name()](https://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/getcwd.3.html) that internally call `malloc` to allocate their own memory and return it.
