---
source: blog
url: https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/case-studies/property-finder-clickhouse/
topic: property-finder-optimizes-database-performance-reduces-costs-by-50-with-clickhouse-on-aws
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

of property seekers with thousands of real estate professionals every day. The platform offers a seamless and enriching experience, empowering both buyers and renters to make informed decisions ## Opportunity \| Addressing Database Performance in Multiple Regions [\#](/blog/how-property-finder-migrated-to-clickhouse#opportunity--addressing-database-performance-in-multiple-regions)

Every day, Property Finder connects millions of property seekers with thousands of real estate professionals. With millions of visitors per month and 700,000 homes listed on its platform, it’s one of the most widely used property portals in the region. Data is key to Property Finder’s user experience. The website provides information to home seekers about properties and communities to help inform decisions. But it also provides rich and detailed market insights for real estate agents and investors to help them understand how their property listings are performing against their competitors and to track trends. It’s therefore essential that its valuable commercial data is stored and served securely and that its analytics service delivers insights at speed.

Property Finder’s previous solution was based on AWS, but teams were using different systems to interrogate and report on data. The result was an increasingly complicated infrastructure with increasing operational costs. Crucially, the company didn’t have a single source of truth, because data was being stored in multiple locations for processing by different teams. Property Finder decided to migrate its database operations to a central solution that could provide optimized analytics capabilities for the whole company.

### Get started today

Interested in seeing how ClickHouse works on your data? Get started with ClickHouse Cloud in minutes and receive $300 in free credits.

[Sign up](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-global-cta&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog)
The company spoke to AWS about how to go about finding a technical partner to improve its database solution. It had an urgent need to improve performance for both its internal teams and customers and wanted to reduce its costs. Based on suggestions from AWS, Property Finder identified 5 suppliers that it could potentially work with and invited them to run a proof of concept (PoC) on its data and selected workloads.

## Solution \| After a Competitive Proof of Concept, a Successful Partnership and Solution [\#](/blog/how-property-finder-migrated-to-clickhouse#solution--after-a-competitive-proof-of-concept-a-successful-partnership-and-solution)
