---
source: blog
url: https://aws.amazon.com/solutions/case-studies/property-finder-clickhouse/
topic: property-finder-optimizes-database-performance-reduces-costs-by-50-with-clickhouse-on-aws
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

suppliers that it could potentially work with and invited them to run a proof of concept (PoC) on its data and selected workloads. ## Solution \| After a Competitive Proof of Concept, a Successful Partnership and Solution [\#](/blog/how-property-finder-migrated-to-clickhouse#solution--after-a-competitive-proof-of-concept-a-successful-partnership-and-solution)

Property Finder chose ClickHouse because it provided the best mix of performance and cost savings during the PoC. One of the benefits of the PoC was that, in addition to identifying the best technology fit for its needs, the company also identified the best people fit with the ClickHouse team, both for the initial project and to help build a product roadmap. “Outside the technical PoC, it was​​ important to get feedback from the Property Finder team on what they were looking for in terms of new functions and features so that we can grow together,” says Arno van Driel, vice\-president EMEA at ClickHouse. “That's the way I would describe our relationship over the past two years as a positive and ongoing dialogue.”

Central to ClickHouse’s solution was its open source, column\-oriented database designed for online analytical processing on very large datasets. After the PoC, the first step was to understand both the data landscape and the level of database knowledge in Property Finder. ClickHouse initially checked in with Property Finder on a weekly basis to optimize the way the data was indexed and how it was accessed and queried. After this was done, work focused on optimizing individual use cases. Another key technical capability was the availability of ClickHouse connectors and [ClickPipes](https://clickhouse.com/cloud/clickpipes)—a data integration engine—that enable different types of company databases, such as PostgreSQL or MySQL, to connect to a central database.

The company is using some key AWS AI capabilities. With [Amazon Bedrock](https://aws.amazon.com/bedrock/), Property Finder’s data engineering teams can make sophisticated database requests in plain language, which are then translated into SQL query strings. The company is also using [Amazon SageMaker](https://aws.amazon.com/sagemaker/) to build data science models that are trained on huge amounts of data to help it predict market churn and make pricing forecasts.
