---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition
topic: backfill-populate-mv-in-a-controlled-manner-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# Backfill/populate MV in a controlled manner \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Schema design](/altinity-kb-schema-design/)
2. [Materialized Views](/altinity-kb-schema-design/materialized-views/)
3. Backfill/populate MV in a controlled manner
# Backfill/populate MV in a controlled manner

Q. How to populate MV create with TO syntax? INSERT INTO mv SELECT \* FROM huge\_table? Will it work if the source table has billions of rows?

A. single huge `insert ... select ...` actually will work, but it will take A LOT of time, and during that time lot of bad things can happen (lack of disk space, hard restart etc). Because of that, it’s better to do such backfill in a more controlled manner and in smaller pieces.

One of the best options is to fill one partition at a time, and if it breaks you can drop the partition and refill it.

If you need to construct a single partition from several sources \- then the following approach may be the best.

```
CREATE TABLE mv_import AS mv;
INSERT INTO mv_import SELECT * FROM huge_table WHERE toYYYYMM(ts) = 202105;
/* or other partition expression*/

/* that insert select may take a lot of time, if something bad will happen
  during that - just truncate mv_import and restart the process */

/* after successful loading of mv_import do*/
ALTER TABLE mv ATTACH PARTITION ID '202105' FROM  mv_import;

```
See also [the ClickHouse® documentation on Manipulating Partitions and Parts](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition)
.

Q. I still do not have enough RAM to GROUP BY the whole partition.

A. Push aggregating to the background during MERGES

There is a modified version of MergeTree Engine, called [AggregatingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/aggregatingmergetree)
. That engine has additional logic that is applied to rows with the same set of values in columns that are specified in the table’s ORDER BY expression. All such rows are aggregated to only one rows using the aggregating functions defined in the column definitions. There are two “special” column types, designed specifically for that purpose:

- [AggregatingFunction](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/aggregatefunction)
- [SimpleAggregatingFunction](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/simpleaggregatefunction)
