---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree/
topic: clickhouse-powers-dassana-s-security-data-lake
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

from various security sources like CSPM tools, IDS, etc, and normalizes it \- which allows you to query and visualize it in a schema\-less manner, all thanks to the power of ClickHouse. ## Why we chose ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickhouse-powers-dassanas-security-data-lake#why-we-chose-clickhouse)

We evaluated more than a dozen different big data systems before settling on ClickHouse. No system comes close to ClickHouse when it comes to the flexibility ClickHouse provides. Specifically, the following features and architectural advantages won us over:

- Different table engines allow us to store data in the format that suits the use case.
- Ability to insert data frequently using asynchronous inserts. Most big data systems force you to batch data which adds a lot of complexity on the application side.
- In\-built accounting system to track query costs such as the number of rows read, etc.
- Ability to automatically move data to a different storage tier. This is an essential feature for data archival and having an in\-built storage tier system has saved us precious development time. As icing on the cake, ClickHouse supports row level and column level TTLs (time to live) too.
- Advanced external dictionary options such as the ability to populate (and refresh) dictionaries from Postgres database and HTTP servers.

As a seed\-funded start\-up, we also evaluated the cost savings at length and found that ClickHouse would cost us a fraction of what it would cost compared to other big data systems.

## How Dassana uses ClickHouse [\#](/blog/clickhouse-powers-dassanas-security-data-lake#how-dassana-uses-clickhouse)

When we first started, under the covers, Dassana heavily used the [ReplacingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree/) table engine to store mutable data. When the state of a finding (alert) needed to be updated, we inserted a new row for the same alert with an updated state value and let the table engine handle deduplication logic. But this didn’t solve the problem when we wanted to provide near real\-time deduplicated results back. This is where advanced features like [AggregatingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/aggregatingmergetree/) with a materialized view came into play.

In case you are wondering if the data was stored twice, once in ReplacingMergeTree and then again in [AggregatingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/aggregatingmergetree/), the answer is no, thanks to ClickHouse's [TTL](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/ttl/) feature.
