---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree/
topic: clickhouse-powers-dassana-s-security-data-lake
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

dictionary. As with any system, the total complexity remains the same \- you can just shuffle it around. In this case, we wanted great performance, but it comes with the following challenges that one must be aware of:

- If the cardinality of `record_id` is very high, there will be higher memory consumption. Fortunately, we found that we can store hundreds of millions of assets (distinct `record_id`) data on a 32GB RAM box.
- There is a short time window of 5 seconds (dictionary load frequency) during which the query will match stale data. This is within our accuracy budget as anyhow the data is loaded in a streaming fashion and most analytical queries for our use case are about trending and approximation.

It is worth mentioning that we experimented with the “Join” table engine too but found the performance of our dictionary based approach to be far more performant.

## Lessons Learned [\#](/blog/clickhouse-powers-dassanas-security-data-lake#lessons-learned)

While this post has shown you some of the powerful features of ClickHouse, we want to highlight some of our learnings too. ClickHouse, in all its glory and power, is a force that needs to be handled with due care and attention to detail. Some of our learnings are:

1. Production parity. Most likely, you are running ClickHouse on Intel CPUs. Don’t run tests on Apple Silicon and expect everything to work the same on Intel CPUs. Of all the ClickHouse builds, Intel builds are the most stable. Similarly, try allocating the same amount of resources to the test cluster as available to the production cluster. This might sound expensive, but you can turn off the test cluster when not in use. Certain issues only surface when the system is heavily used.
2. Don’t manage ClickHouse manually. It is a crime if you are not using ClickHouse Cloud since this takes away a lot of the complexity of scaling and replicating data.
3. Don’t use experimental features in production. This should be obvious learning, but it is sometimes tempting to use experimental features. For example, we started using projections when they were almost in production, but we should have waited. Wait for the training wheels to come off.

### About Dassana [\#](/blog/clickhouse-powers-dassanas-security-data-lake#about-dassana)
