---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/textindexes.md)#
topic: full-text-search-with-text-indexes-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '192.168'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 17
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

run with `query_plan_text_index_add_hint = 1` ``` EXPLAIN actions = 1 SELECT count() FROM table WHERE col LIKE '%some-token%' SETTINGS query_plan_text_index_add_hint = 1 ``` returns ``` [...] Prewhere filter column: and(__text_index_idx_col_like_d306f7c9c95238594618ac23eb7a3f74, like(__table1.col, \'%some-token%\'_String), greaterOrEquals(__table1.d, _CAST(20440_Date, \'Date\'_String))) (removed) [...] ```

In the second EXPLAIN PLAN output, you can see that an additional conjunct (`__text_index_...`) has been added to the filter condition.
Thanks to the [PREWHERE](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select/prewhere) optimization, the filter condition is broken down into three separate conjuncts, which are applied in order of increasing computational complexity.
For this query, the application order is `__text_index_...`, then `greaterOrEquals(...)`, and finally `like(...)`.
This ordering enables skipping even more data granules than the granules skipped by the text index and the original filter, before reading the heavy columns used in the query after `WHERE` clause further reducing the amount of data to read.

### LIKE/ILIKE queries[​](#like-ilike-queries-perf "Direct link to LIKE/ILIKE queries")

When a LIKE/ILIKE query pattern is `%<alpha-numeric-characters-without-spaces>%` and the text index tokenizer is `splitByNonAlpha` or `array`, ClickHouse leverages the inverted index to speed up LIKE/ILIKE queries significantly. To achieve that, ClickHouse scans the inverted index dictionary instead of a full\-table scan to find the matching pattern.

When the optimization is enabled, LIKE/ILIKE queries should be significantly faster than a full\-table scan. However, when the pattern matches most dictionary tokens, the performance can be worse compared to a full\-table scan. Luckily, there is a fallback mechanism to prevent that.

The optimization is controlled by a setting:

- [use\_text\_index\_like\_evaluation\_by\_dictionary\_scan](/docs/operations/settings/settings#use_text_index_like_evaluation_by_dictionary_scan)

The fallback mechanism is controlled by two settings:

- [text\_index\_like\_min\_pattern\_length](/docs/operations/settings/settings#text_index_like_min_pattern_length)
- [text\_index\_like\_max\_postings\_to\_read](/docs/operations/settings/settings#text_index_like_max_postings_to_read)

This optimization supports only functions `like` and `ilike`.

### Caching[​](#caching "Direct link to Caching")

Different caches are available to buffer parts of the text index in memory (see section [Implementation Details](#implementation)):
Currently, there are caches for the deserialized headers, tokens, and posting lists of the text index to reduce I/O.
They can be enabled via settings [use\_text\_index\_header\_cache](/docs/operations/settings/settings#use_text_index_header_cache), [use\_text\_index\_tokens\_cache](/docs/operations/settings/settings#use_text_index_tokens_cache), and [use\_text\_index\_postings\_cache](/docs/operations/settings/settings#use_text_index_postings_cache).

By default, all caches are disabled.
To clear the caches, use statement [SYSTEM CLEAR TEXT INDEX CACHES](/docs/sql-reference/statements/system#drop-text-index-caches)

Please refer the following server settings to configure the caches.

#### Tokens cache settings[​](#caching-tokens "Direct link to Tokens cache settings")
