---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/textindexes.md)#
topic: full-text-search-with-text-indexes-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '192.168'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 19
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

| | | | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ## Limitations[​](#limitations "Direct link to Limitations") The text index currently has the following limitations:

- The materialization of text indexes with a high number of tokens (e.g. 10 billion tokens) can consume significant amounts of memory. Text
index materialization can happen directly (`ALTER TABLE <table> MATERIALIZE INDEX <index>`) or indirectly in part merges.
- It is not possible to materialize text indexes on parts with more than 4\.294\.967\.296 (\= 2^32 \= ca. 4\.2 billion) rows. Without a materialized text index, queries fall back to slow brute\-force search within the part. As a worst case estimation, assume a part contains a single column of type String and MergeTree setting `max_bytes_to_merge_at_max_space_in_pool` (default: 150 GB) was not changed. In this case, the situation happens if the column contains less than 29\.5 characters per row on average. In practice, tables also contain other columns and the threshold is multiples times smaller than that (depending on the number, type and size of the other columns).

## Text Indexes vs Bloom\-Filter\-Based Indexes[​](#text-index-vs-bloom-filter-indexes "Direct link to Text Indexes vs Bloom-Filter-Based Indexes")

String predicates can be sped up using text indexes and bloom\-filter\-based based indexes (index type `bloom_filter`, `ngrambf_v1`, `tokenbf_v1`, `sparse_grams`), yet both are fundamentally different in their design and intended use cases:

**Bloom filter indexes**

- Are based on probabilistic data structures which may produce false positives.
- Are only able to answer set membership questions, i.e. the column may contain token X vs. definitely does not contain X.
- Store granule\-level information to enable skipping coarse ranges during query execution.
- Are hard to tune properly (see [here](/docs/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#n-gram-bloom-filter) for an example).
- Are rather compact (a few kilobytes or megabytes per part).

**Text indexes**

- Build a deterministic inverted index over tokens. No false positives are possible by the index itself.
- Are specifically optimized for text search workloads.
- Store row\-level information which enables efficient term lookup.
- Are rather large (dozens to hundreds of megabytes per part).

Bloom\-filter\-based indexes support full\-text search only as a "side effect":
