---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/textindexes.md)#
topic: full-text-search-with-text-indexes-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '192.168'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 20
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

- Are specifically optimized for text search workloads. - Store row\-level information which enables efficient term lookup. - Are rather large (dozens to hundreds of megabytes per part). Bloom\-filter\-based indexes support full\-text search only as a "side effect":

- They do not support advanced tokenization and preprocessing.
- They do not support multi\-token search.
- They do not provide the performance characteristics expected from an inverted index.

Text indexes, in contrast, are purpose\-built for full\-text search:

- They provide tokenization and preprocessing
- They provide efficient support for `hasAllTokens`, `LIKE`, `match`, and similar text\-search functions.
- They have significantly better scalability for large text corpora.

## Implementation Details[​](#implementation "Direct link to Implementation Details")

Each text index consists of two (abstract) data structures:

- a dictionary which maps each token to a postings list, and
- a set of postings lists, each representing a set of row numbers.

Text index is built for the whole part.
Unlike other skip indexes, text index can be merged instead of rebuilt on merge of the data parts (see below).

During index creation, three files are created (per part):

**Dictionary blocks file (.dct)**

The tokens in the text index are sorted and stored in dictionary blocks of 512 tokens each (the block size is configurable by parameter `dictionary_block_size`).
A dictionary blocks file (.dct) consists all the dictionary blocks of all index granules in a part.

**Index header file (.idx)**

The index header file contains for each dictionary block the block's first token and its relative offset in the dictionary blocks file.

This sparse index structure is similar to ClickHouse's [sparse primary key index](https://clickhouse.com/docs/guides/best-practices/sparse-primary-indexes)).

**Postings lists file (.pst)**

The posting lists for all tokens are laid out sequentially in the postings list file.
To save space while still allowing fast intersection and union operations, the posting lists are stored as [roaring bitmaps](https://roaringbitmap.org/).
If the posting list is larger than `posting_list_block_size`, it is split into multiple blocks that are stored sequentially to the postings lists file.

**Merging of text indexes**
