---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/a\-new\-powerful\-json\-data\-type\-for\-clickhouse](https://clickhouse.com/blog/a-new-powerful-json-data-type-for-clickhouse
topic: best-schema-for-storing-many-metrics-registered-from-the-single-source-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

# Best schema for storing many metrics registered from the single source \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Schema design](/altinity-kb-schema-design/)
2. Best schema for storing many metrics registered from the single source
# Best schema for storing many metrics registered from the single source

Picking the best schema for storing many metrics registered from single source is quite a common problem.

## 1 One row per metric

i.e.: timestamp, sourceid, metric\_name, metric\_value

Pros and cons:

- Pros:
	- simple
	- well normalized schema
	- easy to extend
	- that is quite typical pattern for timeseries databases
- Cons
	- different metrics values stored in same columns (worse compression)
	- to use values of different datatype you need to cast everything to string or introduce few columns for values of different types.
	- not always nice as you need to repeat all ‘common’ fields for each row
	- if you need to select all data for one time point you need to scan several ranges of data.

## 2 Each measurement (with lot of metrics) in it’s own row

In that way you need to put all the metrics in one row (i.e.: timestamp, sourceid, ….)
That approach is usually a source of debates about how to put all the metrics in one row.

### 2a Every metric in it’s own column

i.e.: timestamp, sourceid, metric1\_value, … , metricN\_value

Pros and cons:

- Pros
	- simple
	- really easy to access / scan for rows with particular metric
	- specialized and well adjusted datatypes for every metric.
	- good for dense recording (each time point can have almost 100% of all the possible metrics)
- Cons
	- adding new metric \= changing the schema (adding new column). not suitable when set of metric changes dynamically
	- not applicable when there are too many metrics (when you have more than 100\-200\)
	- when each timepoint have only small subset of metrics recorded \- if will create a lot of sparse filled columns.
	- you need to store ’lack of value’ somehow (NULLs or default values)
	- to read full row \- you need to read a lot of column files.

### 2b Using arrays / Nested / Map

i.e.: timestamp, sourceid, array\_of\_metric\_names, array\_of\_metric\_values

Pros and cons:
