---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-with-clickhouse
topic: building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-data-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.48'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 21
---

active on social media, you may have missed the recent rise of [Bluesky](https://bsky.app/profile/clickhouse.com), which is currently accumulating almost 1 million users a day. Bluesky is a social network like X, but unlike them, it's fully open\-source and decentralized!

Bluesky, built on the [AT Protocol (ATProto)](https://docs.bsky.app/docs/advanced-guides/atproto), is a decentralized social media platform that allows users to host their content independently. By default, data resides on the Bluesky Personal Data Server (PDS), but users can choose to host these servers (and their content) themselves. This approach reflects a shift back to the principles of the early web, where individuals had control over their content and connections instead of relying on centralized platforms that dominate and own user data.

Each user's data is managed in a lightweight, open\-source framework, with a [single SQLite database handling storage](https://github.com/bluesky-social/atproto/pull/1705). This setup enables interoperability and ensures that content ownership remains with the individual, even if a central platform goes offline or changes its policies. We recommend this article for users interested in the underlying architecture and its evolution.

Most importantly for us, like Twitter of old, Bluesky offers a free way to retrieve events e.g. posts, in real\-time, unlocking potentially a huge dataset for analytics as the network grows in popularity.

## Reading Bluesky data [\#](/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-json-data-with-clickhouse#reading-bluesky-data)

To ingest Bluesky data, we use the recently released [Jetstream API](https://docs.bsky.app/blog/jetstream), which simplifies the consumption of Bluesky events by providing JSON\-encoded streams. Unlike the original firehose, which requires handling binary CBOR data and CAR files, Jetstream reduces complexity, making it accessible for developers working on real\-time applications. This API aligns perfectly with our use case, allowing us to filter and process thousands of events per second from Bluesky posts while addressing common challenges like malformed data and high duplication rates.

For our implementation, we connect to a public Jetstream instance, consuming a continuous stream of JSON\-encoded events for ingestion. For this, we use a simple bash that processes the live stream of JSON events from Jetstream. The full script can be found [here](https://github.com/ClickHouse/sql.clickhouse.com/blob/main/load_scripts/bluesky/ingest.sh). In summary, this:
