---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-with-clickhouse
topic: building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-data-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.48'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 21
---

(20.51 million rows/s., 2.83 GB/s.) 9Peak memory usage: 4.85 GiB. ``` ``` We can sample the data using the same function, casting each row to the JSON type and using the `PrettyJSONEachRow` format to obtain a readable result.

```

```
1SET allow_experimental_json_type = 1
2
3SELECT data::'JSON' AS event
4FROM gcs('https://storage.googleapis.com/pme-internal/bluesky/*.gz', '', '', 'CSVWithNames')
5LIMIT 1
6FORMAT PrettyJSONEachRow
7
8{
9  "account": {
10    "active": true,
11    "did": "did:plc:kjealuouxn3l6v4byxh2fhff",
12    "seq": "706717212",
13    "time": "2024-11-27T18:00:02.429Z"
14  },
15  "did": "did:plc:kjealuouxn3l6v4byxh2fhff",
16  "kind": "account",
17  "time_us": "1732730402720719"
18}
19
201 row in set. Elapsed: 0.233 sec.
```


```

While the above provides some insight into the event structure, it does not fully capture the data's complexity, variability, and inconsistency. The `kind` column largely dictates the subsequent structure with the API delivering `commit,` `identity`, and `account` event types. Full details of these event types can be found [here](https://skyware.js.org/docs/jetstream/enums/EventType/), but in summary, these represent:

- `commit`: A commit event indicates either a create, update, or delete of a record. This should represent most events and include posts, likes, and follows.
- `identity`: An account's identity was updated.
- `account`: An account's status was updated.

We'll explore this data further once it is loaded into the Bronze layer.

## Challenges with Bluesky data [\#](/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-json-data-with-clickhouse#challenges-with-bluesky-data)

The Bluesky data, as it's delivered by JetStream API has a number of challenges, including:
