---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-with-clickhouse
topic: building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-data-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.48'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 21
---

parseDateTime64BestEffortOrZero(CAST(getSubcolumn(data, 'account.time'), 'String')), toDateTime64(0, 6)), 8 `dedup_hash` String MATERIALIZED cityHash64(arrayFilter(p -> ((p.1) != 'time_us'), JSONExtractKeysAndValues(CAST(data, 'String'), 'String'))) 9) 10ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree 11PRIMARY KEY (kind, bluesky_ts) 12ORDER BY (kind, bluesky_ts, dedup_hash) ``` ``` Some important notes on this schema:

- **JSON type** \- The `data` column uses the new JSON type and contains the entire event. We use the [`SKIP` clause to exclude specific paths from the JSON](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/newjson), which analysis showed was responsible for the repetition in structure noted earlier.
- **Metadata preservation** \- The `_file` column will contain a reference to the file the row originated from.
- **Materialized columns** \- The rest of our columns are materialized and computed from the data column at insert time. The `scrape_ts` contains the time at which the event was delivered and is extracted from the JSON field `time_us`. Our `kind` column describes the event type, as noted earlier. The `bluesky_ts` column performs conditional logic, extracting the event timestamp based on the `kind` \- this handles our inconsistency in structure and ensures all events have a consistent timestamp. Finally, we compute the hash of the event in the column `dedup_hash`. For this, we produce an array of all JSON paths and their values, excluding the `time_us` (which differs across duplicate events), using the function `JSONExtractKeysAndValues`. The cityHash64 function consumes this array, producing a unique hash.
- **ReplacingMergeTree** \- The [ReplacingMergeTree engine](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/replacing-merge-tree) is used here to eliminate duplicate entries sharing the same sorting key values (`ORDER BY`), with deduplication occurring asynchronously during background merges. These merges happen at indeterminate times and cannot be directly controlled \- deduplication is eventual only, therefore. In our schema, the `ORDER BY` key includes `kind` and `bluesky_ts`, allowing efficient reads and ensuring strong compression by clustering rows with similar attributes. We append `dedup_hash` to uniquely identify rows for deduplication without including it in the `PRIMARY KEY`. This latter configuration is an optimization that prevents the index for `dedup_hash` from being loaded into memory \- a sensible choice as we do not query directly on the hash. A detailed guide on the ReplacingMergeTree can be found [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/replacing-merge-tree).
