---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-with-clickhouse
topic: building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-data-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.48'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 21
---

large set differences as required if files have no natural ordering. > Our earlier use of timestamps for files ensures our data is processed in order and new files can be identified quickly by the S3Queue table engine.

Our [sql.clickhouse.com](http://sql.clickhouse.com) environment into which we are loading this data has three nodes, each with 60 vCPUs. The setting `s3queue_processing_threads_num` assigns the number of threads for file processing per server. In addition, the ordered mode also introduces the setting `s3queue_buckets`. [As recommended](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/integrations/s3queue#ordered-mode), we set this to equal a multiplication of the number of replicas (3\) by the number of processing threads (10\).

To consume rows from this queue, we need to attach an Incremental Materialized View. This view reads from the queue, executing a `SELECT` statement on the rows with the result sent to our bronze layer table `bluesky_raw`.

```

```
1CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW bluesky.bluesky_mv TO bluesky.bluesky_raw
2(
3	`data` Nullable(String)
4)
5AS SELECT
6	data,
7	_file
8FROM bluesky.bluesky_queue
9WHERE isValidJSON(data) = 1
```


```

Note that we perform basic filtering at this layer, limiting rows sent to our bronze table to valid JSON by filtering with `sValidJSON(data) = 1` and including the metadata column `_file` to ensure we have a record of each row's origin gzip file.

### Streaming Bluesky directly to ClickHouse [\#](/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-json-data-with-clickhouse#streaming-bluesky-directly-to-clickhouse)

Note that ClickHouse can directly stream data via JSON input formats, as [demonstrated recently by our CTO Alexey Milovidov](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jmVxfGEN0QQ&feature=youtu.be). This can be achieved by combining the JSON data type and JSON input format. For example,

```

```
1websocat -n "wss://jetstream1.us-east.bsky.network/subscribe?wantedCollections=app.*" | pv -l | split -l 1000 --filter='clickhouse-client --host sql-clickhouse.clickhouse.com --secure --password "" --query "INSERT INTO bluesky.bluesky_raw (data) FORMAT JSONAsObject"'
```


```

### ClickPipes for ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-json-data-with-clickhouse#clickpipes-for-clickhouse-cloud)

While the S3Queue table engine allows us to stream data from object storage to ClickHouse, it does come with limitations. As well as being restricted to S3\-compliant storage, it offers at least once semantics only. Users of ClickHouse Cloud may prefer ClickPipes \- a managed data ingestion offering which provides exactly\-once semantics, supports more sources e.g. Kafka and decouples ingestion resources from the cluster. This can be used to replace S3Queue in the above architecture with minimal setup through a guided wizard.

### Querying the Bronze layer [\#](/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-json-data-with-clickhouse#querying-the-bronze-layer)
