---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-with-clickhouse
topic: building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-data-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.48'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 21
---

exactly\-once semantics, supports more sources e.g. Kafka and decouples ingestion resources from the cluster. This can be used to replace S3Queue in the above architecture with minimal setup through a guided wizard. ### Querying the Bronze layer [\#](/blog/building-a-medallion-architecture-for-bluesky-json-data-with-clickhouse#querying-the-bronze-layer)

While we don’t recommend exposing your bronze table to downstream consumers, our choice of ordering key does allow us to perform efficient data exploration and identify any further quality issues or for data to be replayed through later layers if required.

We noted how at merge time, the ReplacingMergeTree identifies duplicate rows, using the values of the `ORDER BY` columns as a unique identifier, and retains only the highest version. This, however, offers eventual correctness only \- it does not guarantee rows will be deduplicated, and you should not rely on it. To ensure correct answers, users will need to complement background merges with query time deduplication and deletion removal. This can be achieved using the `FINAL` operator. This incurs a resource overhead and will negatively impact query performance \- another reason we don’t recommend exposing Bronze tables to consumers.

We omit the `FINAL` operator on the above queries, accepting the low number of duplicates in a data exploration exercise. The commit events represent the majority of the data:

```

```
1SELECT kind, formatReadableQuantity(count()) AS c
2FROM bluesky_raw
3GROUP BY kind
4FORMAT PrettyCompactMonoBlock
5┌─kind─────┬─c──────────────┐
6│ commit   │ 614.55 million │
7│ account  │ 1.72 million   │
8│ identity │ 1.70 million   │
9└──────────┴────────────────┘
10
113 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.124 sec. Processed 617.97 million rows, 617.97 MB (5.00 billion rows/s., 5.00 GB/s.)
12Peak memory usage: 139.03 MiB.
```


```

Within these commit events, we can inspect the event types using the [JSON type path syntax](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/newjson#reading-json-paths-as-subcolumns):
