---
source: blog
url: "https://graphql.org/learn/)\u201D"
topic: 100x-faster-graphql-hive-migration-from-elasticsearch-to-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

Hive analyses every HTTP request and collects: - name and version of an API consumer - a list of requested types and fields (like User, Comment, User.id, User.name) - an overall latency - a body of the request

GraphQL Hive stores the details of every HTTP request.

## Previously, in GraphQL Hive… [\#](/blog/100x-faster-graphql-hive-migration-from-elasticsearch-to-clickhouse#previously-in-graphql-hive)

This kind of data is not meant to be mutated, requires a Time to Live mechanism and a set of functions for analytics and data aggregation.

We decided to use Elasticsearch because it checked all the boxes and was flexible enough to evolve the product over time.

## Problems with Elasticsearch [\#](/blog/100x-faster-graphql-hive-migration-from-elasticsearch-to-clickhouse#problems-with-elasticsearch)

My biggest concern with Elasticsearch was the query language. Everyone at The Guild (the company behind GraphQL Hive) is familiar with SQL, so the JSON\-based language meant a steep learning curve.

At some point during the preview program, we reached the first scaling issues.

The average response time was getting slower as we stored more and more data.

The other problem was related to indexing. One big user affected the query performance of other smaller users.

We tried to improve it by creating an index per user, but because the overall speed of Elasticsearch was way below what we expected, we started looking for an alternative.

## Alternatives to Elasticsearch [\#](/blog/100x-faster-graphql-hive-migration-from-elasticsearch-to-clickhouse#alternatives-to-elasticsearch)

When looking for an alternative, these were the requirements:

- Easy to learn and maintain
- Superb performance
- Good for analytics and aggregation of data
- Built\-in TTL
- Type System
- No issue with high cardinality

We must say, there are more databases than people and even more benchmarks with different conclusions.

After researching, We decided to test **InfluxDB**, **TimescaleDB**, **Druid**, and **ClickHouse**.

We created a dataset of 20M rows in which one user owned half of them. To measure the performance, we tried to calculate a few high percentiles and see if one big user affects the query performance of the other, smaller users.

## The baseline was 10s with Elasticsearch. [\#](/blog/100x-faster-graphql-hive-migration-from-elasticsearch-to-clickhouse#the-baseline-was-10s-with-elasticsearch)

We had big expectations for **InfluxDB**, it seemed like an extremely fast time\-series database. Unfortunately, like many time\-series databases, it struggles with the [high\-cardinality data](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/high-cardinality-slow-observability-challenge) common in modern observability platforms.. Every collected HTTP request in GraphQL Hive could be labeled with an infinite number of values across all users.
