---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/what-is-real-time-analytics
topic: how-rokt-achieved-real-time-reporting-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

architecture, such as limited customer data slicing and dicing capabilities, resulting in more requests for custom reports. This put pressure on the business analytics (BA) and reporting teams to provide custom reports instead of doing their primary work.

To address these challenges, Rokt needed a new user interface (UI) that provided more group\-by capabilities and filtering. “Our current setup with Elasticsearch wouldn't support it. So we decided to look into other databases on the market that would,” said Semenov. “The other parts about Elasticsearch that we didn't like, is it's not easy to ingest data because you have to basically do pushes, there's no load from S3, there are no joins, so labels must exist somewhere. If you change some label, you have to re\-ingest all the data.”

Semenov explained that there are several issues in querying the data with Elasticsearch. “It's difficult to query as you have to do JSON. You have to have some gateway that would translate your SQL to JSON or just fire JSON queries directly. And overall it leads to data duplications.”

## The Search for a Better Database [\#](/blog/nyc-meetup-report-real-time-slicing-and-dicing-reporting-with-clickhouse#the-search-for-a-better-database)

Rokt looked into other databases that could provide better support, since they faced difficulties with Elasticsearch. Semenov explained they evaluated several alternatives, including Apache Pinot, Druid, Citus Data, StarRocks, Snowflake and ClickHouse.

“Pinot and Druid are more real\-time focussed. There were no joins. I was told that Druid supports it now in some limited capability, and obviously you cannot fire off all kinds of different SQL queries. Snowflake is more of a data warehouse and it's expensive,” said Semenov. “StarRocks claims to be a competitor to ClickHouse, but it's too fresh to use in production, and Citus Data is too Postgres oriented. Microsoft acquired them and they don't plan to support AWS obviously. So we decided to look closer at ClickHouse, and we really like it.”

This led them to benchmark ClickHouse against Redshift. They set up their own cluster with instance SSDs and EBS and found that ClickHouse was three times less expensive than Redshift without cache.
