---
source: blog
url: https://shopee.com/?utm_source=clickhouse
topic: seeing-the-big-picture-shopee-s-journey-to-distributed-tracing-with-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

has made a huge impact. With distributed tracing, the engineering team can monitor and optimize data flows in real\-time, with visibility into system operations that allows them to quickly identify and resolve bottlenecks. Here’s how they’ve done it:

- **Trace and Span Management**: Shopee uses unique identifiers to monitor queries effectively. Each trace consists of multiple spans, representing distinct units of work within a query. By managing these traces and spans, the engineering team can follow the lifecycle of each request, identifying where and why delays or errors occurred.
- **Context Propagation**: Maintaining tracing context across different services and threads is essential. Shopee ensures that the tracing context is propagated consistently as requests travel through various microservices. This continuity allows for a comprehensive view of the entire request path, making it easier to pinpoint issues.
- **Data Storage and Processing**: Shopee uses ClickHouse’s system tables and materialized views for efficient data handling. System tables store internal states and logs, while materialized views provide pre\-computed results to speed up query processing. This setup ensures that data is not only stored efficiently but is also readily accessible for real\-time analysis.

“We now ingest up to 3 million rows per second using just 20 CPU cores on the ClickHouse server, achieving a 1 compression ratio without any tuning,” Frank says. “For data stored on SSDs, the time to search a specific trace ID from a dataset of over 30 billion rows on one ClickHouse instance is measured in mere seconds.”

## Real\-World Wins [\#](/blog/seeing-the-big-picture-shopees-journey-to-distributed-tracing-with-clickhouse#real-world-wins)

Distributed tracing has helped Shopee identify and address a variety of challenges, leading to significant improvements in system performance and reliability.

### 1\. Identifying the Bottleneck [\#](/blog/seeing-the-big-picture-shopees-journey-to-distributed-tracing-with-clickhouse#1-identifying-the-bottleneck)

In one instance, Shopee found that the response time for a query was 118 seconds. Using distributed tracing, they determined that the majority of this time was spent on the ClickHouse Gateway side rather than the ClickHouse side. Further investigation revealed that the client was sending data to ClickHouse very slowly. By enabling data compression on the client side, they were able to reduce the payload size and speed up response times.

### 2\. Solving Network Problems [\#](/blog/seeing-the-big-picture-shopees-journey-to-distributed-tracing-with-clickhouse#2-solving-network-problems)
