---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://altinity.com/blog/2019-5-23-handling-variable-time-series-efficiently-in-clickhouse
topic: how-to-pick-an-order-by-primary-key-partition-by-for-the-mergetree-family-table-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '192.168'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

by` usually has 3 to 5 columns, from lowest cardinal on the left (and the most important for filtering) to highest cardinal (and less important for filtering). Practical approach to create a good ORDER BY for a table:

1. Pick the columns you use in filtering always
2. The most important for filtering and the lowest cardinal should be the left\-most. Typically, it’s something like `tenant_id`
3. Next column is more cardinal, less important. It can be a rounded time sometimes, or `site_id`, or `source_id`, or `group_id` or something similar.
4. Repeat step 3 once again (or a few times)
5. If you already added all columns important for filtering and you’re still not addressing a single row with your pk \- you can add more columns which can help to put similar records close to each other (to improve the compression)
6. If you have something like hierarchy / tree\-like relations between the columns \- put there the records from ‘root’ to ’leaves’ for example (continent, country, cityname). This way ClickHouse® can do a lookup by country/city even if the continent is not specified (it will just ‘check all continents’)
special variants of MergeTree may require special ORDER BY to make the record unique etc.
7. For [timeseries](https://altinity.com/blog/2019-5-23-handling-variable-time-series-efficiently-in-clickhouse)
, it usually makes sense to put the timestamp as the latest column in ORDER BY, which helps with putting the same data nearby for better locality. There are only 2 major patterns for timestamps in ORDER BY: (…, toStartOf(Day\|Hour\|…)(timestamp), …, timestamp) and (…, timestamp). The first one is useful when you often query a small part of a table partition. (table partitioned by months, and you read only 1\-4 days 90% of the time).
8. There are exceptions to the rule “low cordinality \- first” related to compression ratio. For example, data with a lot of repeated attributes in rows (like clickstream), ordering by session\_id will benefit compression and reduce disk read, while setting a low cardinality column (like event type) in the first place makes compression and overall query time worse.

Some examples of good `ORDER BY`:

```
ORDER BY (tenantid, site_id, utm_source, clientid, timestamp)

```

```
ORDER BY (site_id, toStartOfHour(timestamp), sessionid, timestamp )
PRIMARY KEY (site_id, toStartOfHour(timestamp), sessionid)

```
(FWIW, the Altinity blog has [a great article on the LowCardinality datatype](https://altinity.com/blog/2019-3-27-low-cardinality)
.)
