---
source: blog
url: https://pgxn.org/dist/pg_clickhouse/
topic: taming-postgresql-guc-extra-data
ch_version_introduced: '0.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

GucSource source) { if (*newval == NULL || *newval[0] == '\0') return true; kv_list * settings = parse_and_malloc_kv_list(*newval); if (!settings) return false kv_list_free(ch_session_settings_list); /* No errors, return true. */ return true; } ``` And the assign hook became:

```
static void
chfdw_settings_assign_hook(const char *newval, void *extra)
{
    if (ch_session_settings_list)
        kv_list_free(ch_session_settings_list);
    PG_TRY();
    {
        ch_session_settings_list = parse_and_malloc_kv_list(newval);
    }
    PG_CATCH();
    {
        ereport(LOG,
                (errcode(ERRCODE_FDW_ERROR),
                 errmsg("unexpected error parsing \"%s\"", newval)));
    }
    PG_END_TRY();
}

```

Now both hooks execute `parse_and_malloc_kv_list()`. This double parsing
seemed acceptable, given that it replaces parsing the settings for every
query. This solution became [pg\_clickhouse\#95](https://github.com/ClickHouse/pg_clickhouse/issues/95 "ClickHouse/pg_clickhouse#95 Add kv_list and refactor session_settings with it"). I was, however, dissuaded from
applying it because its memory management is more complicated than the
eventual solution, and also by this offhand Discord comment, again from Tom
Lane:

> I do not recommend doing new allocations inside the assign hook. It is
> expected to be incapable of failing.

Which makes me think that the risk of actually raising an error that escapes
`PG_TRY()`, while low, renders this approach suboptimal, to say the least.

## Interlude: Proper use of Extra [\#](/blog/taming-postgres-guc-extra-data#interlude-proper-use-of-extra)

Back in my [first attempt](#first-attempt), `parse_and_malloc_kv_list()` would
`malloc()` memory for each bit of the structure it built: the `kv_list`, a
pointer to a list of key/value pairs, each of those pairs, plus the key and
value strings themselves. The pattern still holds in [pg\_clickhouse\#95](https://github.com/ClickHouse/pg_clickhouse/issues/95 "ClickHouse/pg_clickhouse#95 Add kv_list and refactor session_settings with it")'s
[`kv_list.c`](https://github.com/ClickHouse/pg_clickhouse/pull/95/files#diff-e6e6afea9fa95db0fb2d8a3afe3b757c1a5c66e54c071f0bf315ad862473a512R20-R70). But it made use of `extra` impossible \-\-\- or at least it
surpassed my C expertise. Tom educated me about how to properly use `extra`:

> You're supposed to use guc\_malloc, and the extra data has to be a single
> malloc block, not a list.   
>   
> 
> The general principle with GUC extra data is that once your check\_hook hands
> it back, it's guc.c's responsibility to free it when no longer needed. The
> single\-chunk restriction is because guc.c wouldn't know about other
> components of the data structure.

This approach allows correct use of the `extra` data, does no other assignment
in the check hook, and does nothing but assign in the assign hook, eliminating
the error risk. All I had to do was figure out how to do a single
`guc_malloc()` with a list of key/value pairs.

## Fourth Attempt [\#](/blog/taming-postgres-guc-extra-data#fourth-attempt)
