---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/syntax.md)#
topic: syntax-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

# Syntax \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Introduction](/docs/sql-reference)- Syntax
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/syntax.md)# Syntax

In this section, we will take a look at ClickHouse's SQL syntax.
ClickHouse uses a syntax based on SQL but offers a number of extensions and optimizations.

## Query Parsing[​](#query-parsing "Direct link to Query Parsing")

There are two types of parsers in ClickHouse:

- *A full SQL parser* (a recursive descent parser).
- *A data format parser* (a fast stream parser).

The full SQL parser is used in all cases except for the `INSERT` query, which uses both parsers.

Let's examine the query below:

```
INSERT INTO t VALUES (1, 'Hello, world'), (2, 'abc'), (3, 'def')

```

As mentioned already, the `INSERT` query makes use of both parsers.
The `INSERT INTO t VALUES` fragment is parsed by the full parser,
and the data `(1, 'Hello, world'), (2, 'abc'), (3, 'def')` is parsed by the data format parser, or fast stream parser.

Turning on the full parserYou can also turn on the full parser for the data
by using the [`input_format_values_interpret_expressions`](/docs/operations/settings/formats#input_format_values_interpret_expressions) setting.When the aforementioned setting is set to `1`,
ClickHouse first tries to parse values with the fast stream parser.
If it fails, ClickHouse tries to use the full parser for the data, treating it like an SQL [expression](#expressions).

The data can have any format.
When a query is received, the server calculates no more than [max\_query\_size](/docs/operations/settings/settings#max_query_size) bytes of the request in RAM
(by default, 1 MB), and the rest is stream parsed.
This is to allow for avoiding issues with large `INSERT` queries, which is the recommended way to insert your data in ClickHouse.

When using the [`Values`](/docs/interfaces/formats/Values) format in an `INSERT` query,
it may appear that data is parsed the same as for expressions in a `SELECT` query however this is not the case.
The `Values` format is much more limited.

The rest of this section covers the full parser.

NoteFor more information about format parsers, see the [Formats](/docs/interfaces/formats) section.

## Spaces[​](#spaces "Direct link to Spaces")

- There may be any number of space symbols between syntactical constructions (including the beginning and end of a query).
- Space symbols include the space, tab, line feed, CR, and form feed.

## Comments[​](#comments "Direct link to Comments")

ClickHouse supports both SQL\-style and C\-style comments:
