---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/syntax.md)#
topic: syntax-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

symbols between syntactical constructions (including the beginning and end of a query). - Space symbols include the space, tab, line feed, CR, and form feed. ## Comments[​](#comments "Direct link to Comments") ClickHouse supports both SQL\-style and C\-style comments:

- SQL\-style comments begin with `--`, `#!` or `#`  and continue to the end of the line. A space after `--` and `#!` can be omitted.
- C\-style comments:
	- `//` (or more than 2 `/` characters) followed by text until the end of the line. Spaces after `/` are not required.
	- Can span from `/*` to `*/` for multiline comments. Spaces are not required either.
	- C\-style comments can be nested.

For example:

```
/*
 * Compute the number of days between two dates.
 * /* Returns NULL if either argument is NULL */
 */
SELECT
    dateDiff('day', toDate('2024-01-01'), toDate('2024-12-31')) AS days_in_year, -- 365
    dateDiff('day', toDate('2020-01-01'), today()) AS days_since  #! since 2020
    ///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
    # TODO: add hour/minute variants

```

## Keywords[​](#keywords "Direct link to Keywords")

Keywords in ClickHouse can be either *case\-sensitive* or *case\-insensitive* depending on the context.

Keywords are **case\-insensitive** when they correspond to:

- SQL standard. For example, `SELECT`, `select` and `SeLeCt` are all valid.
- Implementation in some popular DBMS (MySQL or Postgres). For example, `DateTime` is the same as `datetime`.

NoteYou can check whether a data type name is case\-sensitive in the [system.data\_type\_families](/docs/operations/system-tables/data_type_families) table.

In contrast to standard SQL, all other keywords (including functions names) are **case\-sensitive**.

Furthermore, Keywords are not reserved.
They are treated as such only in the corresponding context.
If you use [identifiers](#identifiers) with the same name as the keywords, enclose them into double\-quotes or backticks.

For example, the following query is valid if the table `table_name` has a column with the name `"FROM"`:

```
SELECT "FROM" FROM table_name

```

## Identifiers[​](#identifiers "Direct link to Identifiers")

Identifiers are:

- Cluster, database, table, partition, and column names.
- [Functions](#functions).
- [Data types](/docs/sql-reference/data-types).
- [Expression aliases](#expression-aliases).

Identifiers can be quoted or non\-quoted, although the latter is preferred.

Non\-quoted identifiers must match the regex `^[a-zA-Z_][0-9a-zA-Z_]*$` and cannot be equal to [keywords](#keywords).
See the table below for examples of valid and invalid identifiers:
