---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/syntax.md)#
topic: syntax-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '0.1'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

| --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | --- | NoteOctal literals are not supported to avoid accidental errors in interpretation.

### Compound[​](#compound "Direct link to Compound")

Arrays are constructed with `[]`: `[1, 2, 3]`. Tuples are constructed with `()`: `(1, 'Hello, world!', 2)`.
Technically these are not literals, but expressions with the array creation operator and the tuple creation operator, respectively.
An array must consist of at least one item, and a tuple must have at least two items.

NoteThere is a separate case when tuples appear in the `IN` clause of a `SELECT` query.
Query results can include tuples, but tuples cannot be saved to a database (except for tables using the [Memory](/docs/engines/table-engines/special/memory) engine).

### NULL[​](#null "Direct link to NULL")

`NULL` is used to indicate that a value is missing.
To store `NULL` in a table field, it must be of the [Nullable](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/nullable) type.

NoteThe following should be noted for `NULL`:- Depending on the data format (input or output), `NULL` may have a different representation. For more information, see [data formats](/docs/interfaces/formats).
- `NULL` processing is nuanced. For example, if at least one of the arguments of a comparison operation is `NULL`, the result of this operation is also `NULL`. The same is true for multiplication, addition, and other operations. We recommend to read the documentation for each operation.
- In queries, you can check `NULL` using the [`IS NULL`](/docs/sql-reference/functions/functions-for-nulls#isNull) and [`IS NOT NULL`](/docs/sql-reference/functions/functions-for-nulls#isNotNull) operators and the related functions `isNull` and `isNotNull`.

### Heredoc[​](#heredoc "Direct link to Heredoc")

A [heredoc](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Here_document) is a way to define a string (often multiline), while maintaining the original formatting.
A heredoc is defined as a custom string literal, placed between two `$` symbols.

For example:

```
SELECT $heredoc$SHOW CREATE VIEW my_view$heredoc$;

┌─'SHOW CREATE VIEW my_view'─┐
│ SHOW CREATE VIEW my_view   │
└────────────────────────────┘

```

Note- A value between two heredocs is processed "as\-is".

Tip- You can use a heredoc to embed snippets of SQL, HTML, or XML code, etc.

## Defining and Using Query Parameters[​](#defining-and-using-query-parameters "Direct link to Defining and Using Query Parameters")
