---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/
topic: when-sigterm-does-nothing-a-postgres-mystery
ch_version_introduced: '01.458979'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

don't see any `wait_event` associated, which means Postgres thinks this command is not stuck waiting on anything. Additionally, we noticed the slot we're trying to create has shown up in the pg\_replication\_slots system table with an active PID.

After determining that the issue seemed to be on the Postgres side, one of our initial troubleshooting steps was to "turn it off and on again" and reset the pipe so it started afresh. Doing this led to an even more troubling discovery: even though the ClickPipe had disconnected, this rogue command wouldn't go away. We even used [SQL commands](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-admin.html#FUNCTIONS-ADMIN-SIGNAL) to send `SIGINT` and `SIGTERM` signals to the backend process assigned to this query, but neither was taking effect. `SIGTERM` not taking effect is *bad* because that's supposed to be the "nuclear" option here.

```

```
SELECT pg_cancel_backend(5074), pg_terminate_backend(5074);
```

```

```
 pg_cancel_backend | pg_terminate_backend
-------------------+----------------------
 t                 | t
(1 row)

```

```

```
SELECT pid,wait_event_type,wait_event,state,query 
FROM pg_stat_activity
WHERE pid=5074;
```

```

```
 pid  | wait_event_type | wait_event | state  |                             query
------+-----------------+------------+--------+----------------------------------------------------------------
 5074 |                 |            | active | SELECT pg_create_logical_replication_slot('demo_slot', 'pgoutput');

```

We now had a replication slot marked as "active", and since the process connected to the slot refuses to quit, we cannot drop it. The slot was also now beginning to retain WAL for the decoding process, **which is dangerous, as without a way to read from or drop the slot, it can continue retaining WAL indefinitely, risking storage exhaustion**. As the customer was running a managed Postgres service, the only option they had to get out of this situation was to fully restart the Postgres instance to remove this process, which is not a very appealing proposition as it’d lead to downtime for things dependent on it.
