---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/
topic: when-sigterm-does-nothing-a-postgres-mystery
ch_version_introduced: '01.458979'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

only option they had to get out of this situation was to fully restart the Postgres instance to remove this process, which is not a very appealing proposition as it’d lead to downtime for things dependent on it.

As alluded to earlier, this is not the first time we have seen this exact problem. A few months earlier, another customer using a different managed Postgres service saw the same symptoms while creating a few pipes on a read replica. While we were not able to deterministically solve it, tuning some settings (like turning on [`hot_standby_feedback`](https://postgresqlco.nf/doc/en/param/hot_standby_feedback/)) seemed to make it go away, so we attributed it to some idiosyncrasy in their managed service (we now know that this was not the case). But it was worrying to see it in a completely different managed service on the latest Postgres version with all recommended settings. This was when I set aside time to investigate this further.

## Waiting for a COMMIT that never comes [\#](/blog/sigterm-postgres-mystery#waiting-for-a-commit-that-never-comes)

I got my first clue from support for the customer's Postgres provider, which was a `strace` output on the backend process running the broken query:

```
strace: Process 117778 attached
restart_syscall(<... resuming interrupted nanosleep ...>) = 0
nanosleep({tv_sec=0, tv_nsec=1000000}, NULL) = 0
nanosleep({tv_sec=0, tv_nsec=1000000}, NULL) = 0
nanosleep({tv_sec=0, tv_nsec=1000000}, NULL) = 0
nanosleep({tv_sec=0, tv_nsec=1000000}, NULL) = 0
nanosleep({tv_sec=0, tv_nsec=1000000}, NULL) = 0
nanosleep({tv_sec=0, tv_nsec=1000000}, NULL) = 0
...

```

Seeing only `nanosleep` here and no IO or other syscalls would suggest that the backend is in a loop of `sleep()` calls with a constant duration of 1ms each. This was already a good clue since there are only a few places where such a loop exists in Postgres code. After finding a function in the control flow of creating replication slots that could sleep in this manner under certain conditions, I worked backwards to figure out what this function does and what can get it into this state. And while this bug is not that common in production databases, the "reproduction" of this issue is relatively trivial:
