---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/
topic: when-sigterm-does-nothing-a-postgres-mystery
ch_version_introduced: '01.458979'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

conditions, I worked backwards to figure out what this function does and what can get it into this state. And while this bug is not that common in production databases, the "reproduction" of this issue is relatively trivial:

1. Either set up or nicely ask a managed service to give you a Postgres cluster (v16\+ since that's when standbys started supporting creation of logical replication slots) with a primary instance and a read replica.
2. On the *primary*, start a transaction and perform any DML operation. As an optimization, Postgres only assigns transactions a transactionid/XID once they have written data, so this is to make the transaction "real". Don't COMMIT or ROLLBACK just yet; just leave the session open.
3. On the *read replica*, create a logical replication slot (the most straightforward method would be to use the SQL function [`pg_create_logical_replication_slot`](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/functions-admin.html#FUNCTIONS-REPLICATION)). Once you issue the command, Ctrl\-C becomes useless. Trying to cancel or terminate the backend from another session doesn't work either. If you read syscalls from the backend process via `strace` or similar, you'd see a lot of `nanosleep` syscalls like the one above.
4. COMMIT/ROLLBACK the transaction from step 2\. Doing this will eventually cause the slot creation to return successfully (if you tried to cancel it earlier, it will notice the attempt now and cancel itself).

Internally, creating a replication slot requires waiting for transactions before the slot creation query is issued to COMMIT/ROLLBACK, to reach a "consistent point" where the slot can decode all future transactions. While it is not ideal to have long\-running transactions on Postgres for various reasons, the reality is that certain transactions (think reporting queries or large data backfills) can take a while. If we create a slot under these conditions, it will have to wait for transactions to complete and therefore take longer than usual.

```
2025-05-22 10:44:53.868 UTC [1195] LOG:  00000: logical decoding found initial starting point at 0/356B148
2025-05-22 10:44:53.868 UTC [1195] DETAIL:  Waiting for transactions (approximately 1) older than 6068 to end.

```
