---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/
topic: when-sigterm-does-nothing-a-postgres-mystery
ch_version_introduced: '01.458979'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

complete and therefore take longer than usual. ``` 2025-05-22 10:44:53.868 UTC [1195] LOG: 00000: logical decoding found initial starting point at 0/356B148 2025-05-22 10:44:53.868 UTC [1195] DETAIL: Waiting for transactions (approximately 1) older than 6068 to end. ```

Since waiting on these older transactions can take an arbitrary amount of time, it is crucial to implement this wait as efficiently as possible. Postgres already handles various locks for different operations, and we can reuse this infrastructure to take a lock on older transactions. Since transactions only release their `transactionid` lock after completing, acquiring this lock confirms that the transaction is done. This approach provides visibility—system tables display active waits, allowing administrators to monitor progress.

```

```
SELECT pid,wait_event_type,wait_event,state,query 
FROM pg_stat_activity
WHERE pid=804;
```

```

```
 pid | wait_event_type |  wait_event   | state  |                             query
-----+-----------------+---------------+--------+----------------------------------------------------------------
 804 | Lock            | transactionid | active | SELECT pg_create_logical_replication_slot('demo_slot', 'pgoutput');
(1 row)


```

```

```
SELECT locktype,transactionid,pid,mode 
FROM pg_locks
WHERE pid=804 AND granted='f';
```

```

```
   locktype    | transactionid | pid |   mode
---------------+---------------+-----+-----------
 transactionid |          6077 | 804 | ShareLock

```

If needed, one can cancel the problematic transactions or the slot creation process that’s still waiting. However, this holds only for a “typical” Postgres instance. As it turns out, being a Postgres read replica breaks some invariants, which leads to different behaviour in the same case.

## Read replicas aren't magic, actually [\#](/blog/sigterm-postgres-mystery#read-replicas-arent-magic-actually)

While "read replica" is the colloquial term for a Postgres instance serving read\-only traffic (a term that makes it seem more straightforward than it actually is), Postgres refers to these as "hot standbys". A hot standby is a Postgres instance in "recovery mode" that constantly receives WAL records from a primary Postgres instance and uses these to maintain an exact copy of all data on the primary. The relevant detail here is that the standby can only indirectly observe what transactions running on the primary are doing via the write\-ahead log. Specifically, the standby continuously maintains a list of transactions running on the primary known as `KnownAssignedXids` based on information from incoming WAL records.

The function that implements the "wait for a transaction to complete" operation described earlier is named [`XactLockTableWait`](https://github.com/postgres/postgres/blob/483f7246f39b3af250fed1e613d962b85b568861/src/backend/storage/lmgr/lmgr.c#L663), and the crucial part for us is this loop (code simplified for brevity):
