---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/
topic: when-sigterm-does-nothing-a-postgres-mystery
ch_version_introduced: '01.458979'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

into account, so we know that the transaction is still running. Thus, we hit the 1ms sleep and then another loop iteration. But unlike earlier, this is not a transient situation; we can be stuck here for hours.

1. The optimized `LockAcquire` wait on the primary is replaced by a fixed 1ms polling loop that wastes cycles if we need to wait a long time.
2. If `LockAcquire` needs to wait, it also handles interrupts. Since the function was designed around waiting in `LockAcquire` and the sleep case is for transient cases, there is no code for handling interrupts within the loop. This is what made the backend process "unkillable".
3. We don't report that we're waiting on an external operation, as `LockAcquire` handled this. The only way a regular user can tell that their slot creation is stuck on this is to look at logs, which still mention the need to wait for older transactions to complete. On a primary, this same wait would be visible in system tables.

This issue is a good example of well\-written code causing problems because it was unwittingly roped into handling something it was not designed for. This tends to happen in any codebase of sizable complexity.

## Resolution \- allowing an intervention [\#](/blog/sigterm-postgres-mystery#resolution---allowing-an-intervention)

Our immediate concern was that it was currently impossible to stop a slot creation waiting for a consistent point on a standby. To this effect, I submitted a [patch](https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/flat/CAM45KeELdjhS-rGuvN%3DZLJ_asvZACucZ9LZWVzH7bGcD12DDwg%40mail.gmail.com) to the Postgres mailing list, which just added an interrupt check before each sleep call:

```
+			CHECK_FOR_INTERRUPTS();
 			pg_usleep(1000L);

```

Postgres maintainers quickly [accepted](https://github.com/postgres/postgres/commit/961553daf5d6087b175aa98f3031a46a8666cecf) this patch (thanks, Fujii Masao, for reviewing it!) and backported it to all supported major versions of Postgres. After a minor version upgrade, this problem should be mitigated for all users running hot standbys.

Another community member graciously addressed the issues around the lack of a `wait_event` here and the inefficient loop. A [patch](https://www.postgresql.org/message-id/flat/CABPTF7WZODAVPFxtn9ygA9d6zckkJbFG%3DSUtHdvk7ca%3DUTzSFg%40mail.gmail.com) is out to add a new wait event that highlights this case, and there is also an ongoing discussion about improving the way standbys wait for transactions to complete on the primary. Both these changes are still in flight and should hopefully make it to Postgres 19 next year.

## Lessons learned, and a debt repaid [\#](/blog/sigterm-postgres-mystery#lessons-learned-and-a-debt-repaid)
