---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/join.md)#
topic: join-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

│ -1 │ Int16 │ Nullable(Int64) │ │ 1 │ 1 │ Int16 │ Nullable(Int64) │ └────┴──────┴───────────────┴─────────────────┘ ``` The query ``` SELECT a, b, toTypeName(a), toTypeName(b) FROM t_1 FULL JOIN t_2 USING (a, b); ``` returns the set:

```
┌──a─┬────b─┬─toTypeName(a)─┬─toTypeName(b)───┐
│  1 │    1 │ Int32         │ Nullable(Int64) │
│  2 │    2 │ Int32         │ Nullable(Int64) │
│ -1 │    1 │ Int32         │ Nullable(Int64) │
│  1 │   -1 │ Int32         │ Nullable(Int64) │
└────┴──────┴───────────────┴─────────────────┘

```

## Usage recommendations[​](#usage-recommendations "Direct link to Usage recommendations")

### Processing of empty or NULL cells[​](#processing-of-empty-or-null-cells "Direct link to Processing of empty or NULL cells")

While joining tables, the empty cells may appear. The setting [join\_use\_nulls](/docs/operations/settings/settings#join_use_nulls) define how ClickHouse fills these cells.

If the `JOIN` keys are [Nullable](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/nullable) fields, the rows where at least one of the keys has the value [NULL](/docs/sql-reference/syntax#null) are not joined.

### Syntax[​](#syntax "Direct link to Syntax")

The columns specified in `USING` must have the same names in both subqueries, and the other columns must be named differently. You can use aliases to change the names of columns in subqueries.

The `USING` clause specifies one or more columns to join, which establishes the equality of these columns. The list of columns is set without brackets. More complex join conditions are not supported.

### Syntax Limitations[​](#syntax-limitations "Direct link to Syntax Limitations")

For multiple `JOIN` clauses in a single `SELECT` query:

- Taking all the columns via `*` is available only if tables are joined, not subqueries.
- The `PREWHERE` clause is not available.
- The `USING` clause is not available.

For `ON`, `WHERE`, and `GROUP BY` clauses:

- Arbitrary expressions cannot be used in `ON`, `WHERE`, and `GROUP BY` clauses, but you can define an expression in a `SELECT` clause and then use it in these clauses via an alias.

### Performance[​](#performance "Direct link to Performance")

When running a `JOIN`, there is no optimization of the order of execution in relation to other stages of the query. The join (a search in the right table) is run before filtering in `WHERE` and before aggregation.
