---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/join.md)#
topic: join-clause-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

When running a `JOIN`, there is no optimization of the order of execution in relation to other stages of the query. The join (a search in the right table) is run before filtering in `WHERE` and before aggregation.

Each time a query is run with the same `JOIN`, the subquery is run again because the result is not cached. To avoid this, use the special [Join](/docs/engines/table-engines/special/join) table engine, which is a prepared array for joining that is always in RAM.

In some cases, it is more efficient to use [IN](/docs/sql-reference/operators/in) instead of `JOIN`.

If you need a `JOIN` for joining with dimension tables (these are relatively small tables that contain dimension properties, such as names for advertising campaigns), a `JOIN` might not be very convenient due to the fact that the right table is re\-accessed for every query. For such cases, there is a "dictionaries" feature that you should use instead of `JOIN`. For more information, see the [Dictionaries](/docs/sql-reference/statements/create/dictionary) section.

### Memory limitations[​](#memory-limitations "Direct link to Memory limitations")

By default, ClickHouse uses the [hash join](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hash_join) algorithm. ClickHouse takes the right\_table and creates a hash table for it in RAM. If `join_algorithm = 'auto'` is enabled, then after some threshold of memory consumption, ClickHouse falls back to [merge](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sort-merge_join) join algorithm. For `JOIN` algorithms description see the [join\_algorithm](/docs/operations/settings/settings#join_algorithm) setting.

If you need to restrict `JOIN` operation memory consumption use the following settings:

- [max\_rows\_in\_join](/docs/operations/settings/settings#max_rows_in_join) — Limits number of rows in the hash table.
- [max\_bytes\_in\_join](/docs/operations/settings/settings#max_bytes_in_join) — Limits size of the hash table.

When any of these limits is reached, ClickHouse acts as the [join\_overflow\_mode](/docs/operations/settings/settings#join_overflow_mode)
setting instructs.

## Examples[​](#examples "Direct link to Examples")

Example:

```
SELECT
    CounterID,
    hits,
    visits
FROM
(
    SELECT
        CounterID,
        count() AS hits
    FROM test.hits
    GROUP BY CounterID
) ANY LEFT JOIN
(
    SELECT
        CounterID,
        sum(Sign) AS visits
    FROM test.visits
    GROUP BY CounterID
) USING CounterID
ORDER BY hits DESC
LIMIT 10

```
