---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/caches/
topic: introducing-the-clickhouse-query-cache
ch_version_introduced: '8.998'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

leads to a more natural caching behavior. If needed, the cache behavior can be controlled in more detail using the following configuration settings. Unlike the maximum cache entry size, these settings are either per query or per session:

- It is sometimes desirable to utilize the cache only passively (\= try to read from it but not write to it) or only actively (\= try to write to it but not read from it). This can be achieved using settings `enable_writes_to_query_cache` and
`enable_reads_from_query_cache` which are both `true` by default.
- To cache only expensive (in terms of runtime) or frequent queries, you can specify how long (in milliseconds) and how often queries need to run at least such that their result is cached using the settings `use_query_cache_min_query_duration` and `use_query_cache_min_query_runs`.
- Results of queries with non\-deterministic functions such as `rand()` and `now()` are by default not cached. If desired, this can be changed using the setting `query_cache_store_results_of_queries_with_nondeterministic_functions`.
- Finally, entries in the query cache are, by default, not shared between users due to security reasons. However, individual cache entries can be marked readable for other users by running them with the setting `query_cache_share_between_users`.

## Design [\#](/blog/introduction-to-the-clickhouse-query-cache-and-design#design)

Generally speaking, one can distinguish transactionally consistent and inconsistent query caching.

In transactionally consistent caching, the database invalidates a cache entry if the result of the associated `SELECT` query changes or even changes potentially. Obvious operations that can change query results include inserts, updates, and deletes of table data. ClickHouse also has certain housekeeping operations, such as collapsing merges, that potentially modify table data. The concept of transactionally consistent caching especially makes sense for OLTP databases such as MySQL, Postgresql, and Oracle which have strict consistency expectations.

In contrast, ClickHouse, as an OLAP database, uses a query cache that is transactionally inconsistent by design. Slightly inaccurate query results are tolerated, assuming that cache entries are associated with a time\-to\-live after which they expire and that the underlying data changes only a little during this period. Inserts, updates, deletes, and internal housekeeping operations do not invalidate cache entries. As a result, this design avoids the scalability issues that plagued [MySQL's query cache](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/query-cache.html) in high\-throughput scenarios.
