---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: ip-based-geolocation-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '4.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

IP Ranges to CIDR Notation [\#](/blog/geolocating-ips-in-clickhouse-and-grafana#using-bit-functions-to-convert-ip-ranges-to-cidr-notation) Because our `ip_trie` dictionary requires IP address ranges to be expressed in CIDR notation, we’ll need to transform `ip_range_start` and `ip_range_end`. For reference, here’s a brief [description of CIDR notation from Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classless_Inter-Domain_Routing):

> These groups, commonly called CIDR blocks, share an initial sequence of bits in the binary representation of their IP addresses. IPv4 CIDR blocks are identified using a syntax similar to that of IPv4 addresses: a dotted\-decimal address, followed by a slash, then a number from 0 to 32, i.e., a.b.c.d/n. The dotted decimal portion is the IPv4 address. The number following the slash is the prefix length, the number of shared initial bits, counting from the most\-significant bit of the address. When emphasizing only the size of a network, the address portion of the notation is usually omitted. Thus, a /20 block is a CIDR block with an unspecified 20\-bit prefix.
> 
> 
> 
> An IP address is part of a CIDR block and is said to match the CIDR prefix if the initial n bits of the address and the CIDR prefix are the same. An IPv4 address is 32 bits so an n\-bit CIDR prefix leaves 32 − n bits unmatched, meaning that 232−n IPv4 addresses match a given n\-bit CIDR prefix.
> 
> 
> 
> 
> An IP address is part of a CIDR block and is said to match the CIDR prefix if the initial n bits of the address and the CIDR prefix are the same. An IPv4 address is 32 bits so an n\-bit CIDR prefix leaves 32 − n bits unmatched, meaning that 232−n IPv4 addresses match a given n\-bit CIDR prefix.

In order to generate a CIDR expression for our IP ranges, we’ll need to compare each range to determine unmatched bits in each address and then determine the smallest possible CIDR range that encompasses the whole range. Here’s a diagram to demonstrate:
