---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shared-disk_architecture
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-comparing-and-migrating
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

over other systems. We provide an additional list of similarities and differences concerning features and data types below. ### Real\-time analytics [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-comparison-migration-guide#real-time-analytics) Based on our benchmark analysis, ClickHouse outperforms Snowflake for real\-time analytics applications in the following areas:

- **Query latency**: Snowflake queries have a higher query latency even when clustering is applied to tables to optimize performance. In our testing, Snowflake requires over twice the compute to achieve equivalent ClickHouse performance on queries where a filter is applied that is part of the Snowflake clustering key or ClickHouse primary key. While Snowflake's [persistent query cache](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/querying-persisted-results) offsets some of these latency challenges, this is ineffective in cases where the filter criteria are more diverse. This query cache effectiveness can be further impacted by changes to the underlying data, with cache entries invalidated when the table changes. While this is not the case in the benchmark for our application, a real deployment would require the new, more recent data to be inserted. Note that ClickHouse's query cache is node specific and not [transactionally consistent](https://clickhouse.com/blog/introduction-to-the-clickhouse-query-cache-and-design), making it [better suited](https://clickhouse.com/blog/introduction-to-the-clickhouse-query-cache-and-design) to real\-time analytics. Users also have granular control over its use with the ability to control its use on a [per\-query basis](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#use-query-cache), its [precise size](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#query-cache-max-size-in-bytes), whether a [query is cached](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#enable-writes-to-query-cache) (limits on duration or required number of executions), and whether it is only [passively used](https://clickhouse.com/blog/introduction-to-the-clickhouse-query-cache-and-design#using-logs-and-settings).
- **Lower cost**: Snowflake warehouses can be configured to suspend after a period of query inactivity. Once suspended, charges are not incurred. Practically, this inactivity check can [only be lowered to 60s](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/alter-warehouse). Warehouses will automatically resume, within several seconds, once a query is received. With Snowflake only charging for resources when a warehouse is under use, this behavior caters to workloads that often sit idle, like ad\-hoc querying. 
However, many real\-time analytics workloads require ongoing real\-time data ingestion and frequent querying that doesn't benefit from idling (like customer\-facing dashboards). This means warehouses must often be fully active and incurring charges. This negates the cost\-benefit of idling as well as any performance advantage that may be associated with Snowflake's ability to resume a responsive state faster than alternatives. This active state requirement, when combined with ClickHouse Cloud's lower per\-second cost for an active state, results in ClickHouse Cloud offering a significantly lower total cost for these kinds of workloads.
- **Predictable pricing of features:** Features such as materialized views and clustering (equivalent to ClickHouse's ORDER BY) are required to reach the highest levels of performance in real\-time analytics use cases. These features incur additional charges in Snowflake, requiring not only a higher tier, which increases costs per credit by 1\.5x, but also unpredictable background costs. For instance, materialized views incur a background maintenance cost, as does clustering, which is hard to predict prior to use. In contrast, these features incur no additional cost in ClickHouse Cloud, except additional CPU and memory usage at insert time, typically negligible outside of high insert workload use cases. We have observed in our benchmark that these differences, along with lower query latencies and higher compression, result in significantly lower costs with ClickHouse.
