---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shared-disk_architecture
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-comparing-and-migrating
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

can provide significant storage and performance gains. - Support for joins and WHERE filters, unlike projections. - Materialized views can be chained, i.e. multiple views can execute when data is inserted, each producing its own summarized data form.

### Clustering vs Ordering [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-comparison-migration-guide#clustering-vs-ordering)

Both ClickHouse and Snowflake are column\-oriented databases. This data orientation is superior to row\-wise storage — common in transactional (OLTP) systems — and is a key characteristic of [Online Analytical Processing (OLAP) systems](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/oltp-vs-olap) designed for analytical workloads due to the more effective use of CPU caches and SIMD instructions. Furthermore, it ensures sorted columns can be more efficiently compressed since common compression algorithms can exploit repetitive values. While they have different approaches to data storage, both systems require sorting and indices for optimal read performance. This creates some analogous concepts users can leverage when contrasting and migrating data between the systems, even if the implementation differs.

Central to ClickHouse is the use of sparse indices and sorted data. At table creation time, a user specifies an `ORDER BY` clause containing a tuple of columns. This explicitly controls how the data is sorted. Generally, these [columns should be selected based on the frequent queries and listed in order of increasing cardinality.](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/sparse-primary-indexes) In addition to controlling the order of data on disk, the `ORDER BY` also, by default, configures the associated sparse primary index. This can be overridden by the `PRIMARY KEY` clause. Note that the `ORDER BY` must include the `PRIMARY KEY` as a prefix, as the latter assumes the data is sorted (see [here](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-postgresql-change-data-capture-cdc-part-1#choosing-a-primary-key) for an example of where these might differ). This sparse index relies on the data being sorted on disk and is critical to fast query execution in ClickHouse, by allowing data to be scanned efficiently and skipped if it does not match predicates.

Snowflake, while differing in its on\-disk [storage structures](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/tables-clustering-micropartitions) with micro\-partitions, provides a similar concept through [clustering](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/tables-clustering-keys). This clause allows users to specify a set of columns that control how data is assigned to micro\-partitions, aiming to ensure that data with the same values for these columns are co\-located. By also effectively controlling data order on disk, clustering offers similar gains in performance and compression in comparison to ClickHouse’s `ORDER BY`.
