---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shared-disk_architecture
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-comparing-and-migrating
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

to micro\-partitions, aiming to ensure that data with the same values for these columns are co\-located. By also effectively controlling data order on disk, clustering offers similar gains in performance and compression in comparison to ClickHouse’s `ORDER BY`.

Despite their conceptual similarities, there are a few differences in their implementation which affect subsequent usage:

- ClickHouse sorts data at insert time according to the `ORDER BY`, constructing the sparse index as data is written to disk. There is no additional cost and negligible overhead at write time, allowing for appropriate optimization even for fast\-changing tables.
- Snowflake performs clustering asynchronously, consuming credits in the background to keep the data assigned to the right partitions in a process known as [Automatic Clustering](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/tables-auto-reclustering). The credits which will be consumed during this process cannot be easily predicted. While appropriate for tables that are queried frequently with multi\-TiB of data, Snowflake [does not recommend clustering](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/tables-clustering-keys#benefits-of-defining-clustering-keys-for-very-large-tables) for fast\-changing tables. The cardinality of the columns used will heavily impact the overhead of clustering and the consumed credits \- Snowflake recommends using expressions (e.g. `to_date`) to mitigate this impact. Most important for users, when the clustering occurs is not deterministic, so its benefits will not be available immediately when applied to a table. The process is incremental, with clustering improving over time before stabilizing (assuming no further data is added).
- Snowflake allows data to be re\-clustered at [a potentially high cost](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/tables-clustering-keys#credit-and-storage-impact-of-reclustering). This is possible in Snowflake due to a micro\-partitioned approach, whereas in ClickHouse, a complete data rewrite is required.

Irrespective of the above differences, these features are critical to analytical workloads, which require selecting, filtering, and sorting on specific columns with `GROUP BY` operations to support the building of charts with drill\-downs. In both cases, it is important to map the columns used in the respective clauses to the workload. A high percentage of queries should benefit from the clustering / ordering keys, with most queries hitting these columns.

When selecting columns for the `ORDER BY` and `CLUSTER BY` clauses, ClickHouse and Snowflake provide similar recommendations:
