---
source: blog
url: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shared-disk_architecture
topic: clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-comparing-and-migrating
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 18
---

Tuple(lib Enum8(\'\' = 0, \'glibc\' = 1, \'libc\' = 2), version LowCardinality(String)))') AS distro, JSONExtract(ifNull(SYSTEM, '{}'), 'Tuple(name LowCardinality(String), release String)') AS system, CPU, OPENSSL_VERSION, SETUPTOOLS_VERSION, RUSTC_VERSION, TLS_PROTOCOL, TLS_CIPHER FROM s3('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/pypi/2023/pypi*.parquet') SETTINGS input_format_null_as_default = 1, input_format_parquet_case_insensitive_column_matching = 1 ```

We rely on the settings [`input_format_null_as_default=1`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/formats#input_format_null_as_default) and [`input_format_parquet_case_insensitive_column_matching=1`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/formats#input_format_parquet_case_insensitive_column_matching) here to ensure columns are inserted as default values if null, and column matching between the source data and target table is case insensitive.

If using [Azure](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-unload-azure) or [Google Cloud](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/user-guide/data-unload-gcs), similar processes can be created. Note dedicated functions exist in ClickHouse[\[1]\[2]](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/table-functions/azureBlobStorage) for importing data from these object stores.

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-comparison-migration-guide#conclusion)

In this post, we have contrasted Snowflake and ClickHouse for the real\-time analytics use case, looking at similarities and differences between the systems. We have identified ClickHouse features beneficial to this use case and explored how users might migrate workloads from Snowflake. In the [next post in this series](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-benchmarks-cost-analysis), we will introduce a sample real\-time analytics application, identify differences in compression and insert performance, and benchmark representative queries. This will conclude with a cost analysis where we present possible savings with ClickHouse Cloud.

---

## Appendix [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-comparison-migration-guide#appendix)

Users looking to migrate real\-time analytics workloads from Snowflake to ClickHouse may need to understand several key concepts. Below, we provide additional information on data types and equivalences in core clustering and ordering. This information supplements the earlier section on the high\-level approach to transferring data.

### Data Types [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-comparison-migration-guide#data-types)

#### Numerics [\#](/blog/clickhouse-vs-snowflake-for-real-time-analytics-comparison-migration-guide#numerics)

Users moving data between ClickHouse and Snowflake will immediately notice that ClickHouse offers more granular precision concerning declaring numerics. For example, Snowflake offers the type `Number` for numerics. This requires the user to specify a precision (total number of digits) and scale (digits to the right of the decimal place) up to a total of 38\. Integer declarations are synonymous with `Number`, and simply define a fixed precision and scale where the range is the same. This convenience is possible as modifying the precision (scale is 0 for ints) does not impact the size of data on disk in Snowflake \- the minimal required bytes are used for a numeric range at write time at a micro partition level. The scale does, however, impact storage space and is offset with compression. A Float64 type offers a wider range of values with a loss of precision.
