---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/company/events/v23-4-release-webinar
topic: clickhouse-release-23-3
ch_version_introduced: '23.3'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

feature that makes deleting data in ClickHouse a lighter weight operation \- aptly named “Lightweight Deletes”. To much community demand and anticipation we can now announce that this feature is generally available and ready for use in production.

This approach to removing data now represents the preferred and most efficient way to remove data from ClickHouse. Exposed via the DELETE FROM table syntax, users can specify a condition to remove specific rows as shown below:

```
DELETE FROM table WHERE col1 = 'Hi' AND col2 = 2

```

Users should be aware that this feature utilizes an internal column to mark deleted rows. These rows are then removed during regular merge cycles. This has a few implications, principally that rows will only be *eventually* removed from the disk. While excluded from search results, the deleted rows will reside on disk until their parts are merged. The time taken for this to happen is not deterministic. This means:

- Space savings will not be as immediate as issuing a deletion [through regular mutations](https://clickhouse.com/blog/handling-updates-and-deletes-in-clickhouse). Consider using mutations if space savings are critical, e.g., insufficient disk space.
- With no guarantees for removal, users with compliance requirements may wish to use mutations to ensure data is deleted.

With the exception of these two use cases, we recommend users begin migrating their delete workloads to ClickHouse today.

## MySQL Compatibility (Robert Schulze, Flynn) [\#](/blog/clickhouse-release-23-03#mysql-compatibility-robert-schulze-flynn)

While ClickHouse has had support for the MySQL wire protocol for many years, the dialect and supported functions are distinct. This is intentional since it allows users to more easily write analytical queries. However, with third\-party tooling such [Google Looker](https://cloud.google.com/looker) requiring extensive MySQL compatibility we have continued to improve our support here. Whilst support for operators such as `SELECT 'ClickHouse' REGEXP 'M?ouse$';` are important for full syntactical support, other functions such as [parseDateTime](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/type-conversion-functions#type_conversion_functions-parseDateTime) bring new capabilities to ClickHouse. This specific function enhances the date parsing capabilities of ClickHouse by allowing users to specify a date format in [MySQL Syntax](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/date-and-time-functions.html#function_date-format), for those cases when the classical [parseDateTimeBestEffort](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/type-conversion-functions#parsedatetimebesteffort) function is not able to correctly determine the date time.

For example, suppose you encounter a format using the day of the year to denote the specific date:
