---
source: blog
url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jrothste/
topic: my-journey-as-a-serial-startup-product-manager
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

a great learning experience for customer\-facing skills, it was not what I was looking for. We worked with a lot of legacy technologies at big bureaucratic companies, which did not feel innovative or all that interesting to me.

I realized that instead I wanted to bring new products to life, but I did not know how to break in. So I went back to grad school to study computer science again, but quickly realized that unlike my parents, I did not want a PhD. After getting my masters, I was just as lost as before as to what to do next. This is where I got advice from one of my professors to “look into product management”. It sounded important, so I researched online and started interviewing at big companies in Seattle \- Microsoft, Amazon, Google \- regurgitating all the things I read and hoping they would believe I had the “right stuff” for an entry\-level product management job.

Thankfully, at that stage, I was referred by another professor to a set of technical founders who were bringing a startup out of stealth mode and just got Series A funding. They did not have a product management role for me, but I agreed to join as a sales engineer (aka solution architect), running proofs of concept with early customers. I agreed to the role, because I was really curious about “working at a startup”, but I was also very much enamored by the product and by the team.

As it turned out, this choice was the deciding factor in shaping my career going forward.

## My product management experiences (so far) [\#](/blog/my-journey-as-a-serial-startup-product-manager#my-product-management-experiences-so-far)
