---
source: blog
url: https://www.linkedin.com/in/jrothste/
topic: my-journey-as-a-serial-startup-product-manager
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

to this day. I went through years of very fast growth and an IPO with Elastic, working my way up from middle ranks of product management to head of product for the \#1 revenue generating observability product line.

When I got the opportunity to lead product at ClickHouse, an increasingly popular open source project in the real time analytics space, it did not take much time to decide it was the right next step for me. While ExtraHop and Elastic were great learning experiences, I was not fully responsible for taking the first commercial product offering from 0 to 1 there. I really wanted to have that responsibility, and I knew I was ready for it. I was also inspired by the technology, which is taking the world by storm, the culturally\-diverse and dedicated team, and the opportunity to work in an emerging market category of analytical databases.

## My product management philosophy [\#](/blog/my-journey-as-a-serial-startup-product-manager#my-product-management-philosophy)

I sometimes get asked what product management means to me, and what I think it takes to be a good PM.

The first part is easy. Product management is responsible for making sure that the organization is aligned around a vision and a plan for how to build the right product(s) to sustain a successful business. There are whole books written on the subject, so I won’t opine in more detail here. My favorite book that simply explains the role of product management in relation to other roles at technology companies is “Inspired” by Marty Cagan.

How to be a good PM is much more difficult to describe. It depends a lot on the type of organization and team you are joining. As you can see from my experiences, I enjoy working at early\-stage companies with very strong engineering teams. And as a result, I believe in building respectful and trusting relationships with technical leaders at the company, and being flexible about the role of product management depending on the stage of startup development.
