---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/overview.md)#
topic: regular-functions-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

# Regular Functions \| ClickHouse Docs

- - [Functions](/docs/sql-reference/functions)- [Regular functions](/docs/sql-reference/functions/regular-functions)- Overview
[Edit this page](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/overview.md)# Regular Functions

There are at least\* two types of functions \- regular functions (they are just called "functions") and aggregate functions. These are completely different concepts. Regular functions work as if they are applied to each row separately (for each row, the result of the function does not depend on the other rows). Aggregate functions accumulate a set of values from various rows (i.e. they depend on the entire set of rows).

In this section we discuss regular functions. For aggregate functions, see the section "Aggregate functions".

NoteThere is a third type of function that the ['arrayJoin' function](/docs/sql-reference/functions/array-join) belongs to. And [table functions](/docs/sql-reference/table-functions) can also be mentioned separately.

## Strong Typing[​](#strong-typing "Direct link to Strong Typing")

In contrast to standard SQL, ClickHouse has strong typing. In other words, it does not make implicit conversions between types. Each function works for a specific set of types. This means that sometimes you need to use type conversion functions.

## Common Subexpression Elimination[​](#common-subexpression-elimination "Direct link to Common Subexpression Elimination")

All expressions in a query that have the same AST (the same record or same result of syntactic parsing) are considered to have identical values. Such expressions are concatenated and executed once. Identical subqueries are also eliminated this way.

## Types of Results[​](#types-of-results "Direct link to Types of Results")

All functions return a single value as the result (not several values, and not zero values). The type of result is usually defined only by the types of arguments, not by the values. Exceptions are the tupleElement function (the a.N operator), and the toFixedString function.

## Constants[​](#constants "Direct link to Constants")

For simplicity, certain functions can only work with constants for some arguments. For example, the right argument of the LIKE operator must be a constant.
Almost all functions return a constant for constant arguments. The exception is functions that generate random numbers.
The 'now' function returns different values for queries that were run at different times, but the result is considered a constant, since constancy is only important within a single query.
A constant expression is also considered a constant (for example, the right half of the LIKE operator can be constructed from multiple constants).
