---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/overview.md)#
topic: regular-functions-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

the result is considered a constant, since constancy is only important within a single query. A constant expression is also considered a constant (for example, the right half of the LIKE operator can be constructed from multiple constants).

Functions can be implemented in different ways for constant and non\-constant arguments (different code is executed). But the results for a constant and for a true column containing only the same value should match each other.

## NULL Processing[​](#null-processing "Direct link to NULL Processing")

Functions have the following behaviors:

- If at least one of the arguments of the function is `NULL`, the function result is also `NULL`.
- Special behavior that is specified individually in the description of each function. In the ClickHouse source code, these functions have `UseDefaultImplementationForNulls=false`.

## Constancy[​](#constancy "Direct link to Constancy")

Functions can't change the values of their arguments – any changes are returned as the result. Thus, the result of calculating separate functions does not depend on the order in which the functions are written in the query.

## Higher\-order functions[​](#higher-order-functions "Direct link to Higher-order functions")

### `->` operator and lambda(params, expr) functions[​](#arrow-operator-and-lambda "Direct link to arrow-operator-and-lambda")

Higher\-order functions can only accept lambda functions as their functional argument. To pass a lambda function to a higher\-order function use `->` operator. The left side of the arrow has a formal parameter, which is any ID, or multiple formal parameters – any IDs in a tuple. The right side of the arrow has an expression that can use these formal parameters, as well as any table columns.

Examples:

```
x -> 2 * x
str -> str != Referer

```

A lambda function that accepts multiple arguments can also be passed to a higher\-order function. In this case, the higher\-order function is passed several arrays of identical length that these arguments will correspond to.

For some functions the first argument (the lambda function) can be omitted. In this case, identical mapping is assumed.

### Bare function names as lambdas[​](#bare-function-names-as-lambdas "Direct link to Bare function names as lambdas")

Instead of writing a full lambda expression, you can pass a function name directly to a higher\-order function. The function name is automatically converted to an equivalent lambda expression.

For example, the following pairs are equivalent:
