---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/9fb2290fbebcd92a3f79a7f321f13960ea89ebec
topic: can-not-connect-to-my-clickhouse-server-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '0.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 2
---

# Can not connect to my ClickHouse® server \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Setup \& maintenance](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/)
2. Can not connect to my ClickHouse® server
# Can not connect to my ClickHouse® server

Can not connect to my ClickHouse® server.## Can not connect to my ClickHouse® server

Errors like
“Connection reset by peer, while reading from socket”

1. Ensure that the `clickhouse-server` is running

```
systemctl status clickhouse-server

```
If server was restarted recently and don’t accept the connections after the restart \- most probably it still just starting.
During the startup sequence it need to iterate over all data folders in /var/lib/clickhouse\-server
In case if you have a very high number of folders there (usually caused by a wrong partitioning, or a very high number of tables / databases)
that startup time can take a lot of time (same can happen if disk is very slow, for example NFS).

You can check that by looking for ‘Ready for connections’ line in `/var/log/clickhouse-server/clickhouse-server.log` (`Information` log level needed)
2. Ensure you use the proper port ip / interface?

Ensure you’re not trying to connect to secure port without tls / https or vice versa.

For `clickhouse-client` \- pay attention on host / port / secure flags.

Ensure the interface you’re connecting to is the one which ClickHouse listens (by default ClickHouse listens only localhost).

Note: If you uncomment line `<listen_host>0.0.0.0</listen_host>` only \- ClickHouse will listen only ipv4 interfaces,
while the localhost (used by `clickhouse-client`) may be resolved to ipv6 address. And `clickhouse-client` may be failing to connect.

How to check which interfaces / ports do ClickHouse listen?

```
sudo lsof -i -P -n | grep LISTEN

echo listen_host
sudo clickhouse-extract-from-config --config=/etc/clickhouse-server/config.xml --key=listen_host
echo tcp_port
sudo clickhouse-extract-from-config --config=/etc/clickhouse-server/config.xml --key=tcp_port
echo tcp_port_secure
sudo clickhouse-extract-from-config --config=/etc/clickhouse-server/config.xml --key=tcp_port_secure
echo http_port
sudo clickhouse-extract-from-config --config=/etc/clickhouse-server/config.xml --key=http_port
echo https_port
sudo clickhouse-extract-from-config --config=/etc/clickhouse-server/config.xml --key=https_port

```
3. For secure connection:

	- ensure that server uses some certificate which can be validated by the client
	- OR disable certificate checks on the client (UNSECURE)
4. Check for errors in /var/log/clickhouse\-server/clickhouse\-server.err.log ?
5. Is ClickHouse able to serve some trivial tcp / http requests from localhost?

```
curl 127.0.0.1:9200
curl 127.0.0.1:8123

```
6. Check number of sockets opened by ClickHouse
