---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: vector-search-with-clickhouse-part-1
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

providing semantic search through the generation of vector embeddings, their storage, and retrieval. This capability has a number of applications beyond simply enhancing existing traditional enterprise or application search experiences. Possible uses include, but are not limited to:

- **Recommendations** \- Particularly relevant to e\-commerce websites, vector search can be used to find relevant products. Beyond simply embedding text meaning into vectors, features such as page views and past purchases can be encoded in vectors.
- **Question answering** \- Question\-answering systems have historically been challenging as users rarely use the same terms as the question. Equivalent meanings can, however, be encoded with vectors that are close, e.g., X and Y.
- **Image and video search** \- Using multimodal models described above, users can search for images and videos based on text \- useful for applications such as music and movie recommendation systems, product recommendations, and news article recommendations.
- **Fraud detection** \- We can find similar or dissimilar transactions by encoding users' behaviors or log\-in patterns into vectors. These can be anomalous behaviors and prevent fraud.
- **Genome analysis** \- Vector databases can be used to store and retrieve embeddings of genomic sequences, which can be useful for applications such as gene expression analysis, personalized medicine, and drug discovery.
- **Multilingual search** \- Rather than build an index for language (normally an expensive exercise and linear in cost to the number of languages), multilingual models can allow cross\-language searching with the same concept in two languages encoded to the same vector.
- **Providing context** \- Recently, vector databases have been leveraged to provide contextual content to chat applications powered by APIs like ChatGPT. For instance, content can be converted to vectors and stored in a vector database. When an end\-user asks a question, the database is queried, and relevant documents are identified. Rather than returning these to the user directly, they can be used to provide additional context for ChatGPT to generate a much more robust answer. Our friends at Supabase [recently implemented such an architecture](https://supabase.com/blog/chatgpt-supabase-docs) to provide a chatbot for their documentation.

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p1#conclusion)
