---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: vector-search-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '0.33110910654067993'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 28
---

reproducible on an equivalently sized self\-managed cluster. Alternatively, [start your ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp) cluster today, and receive $300 of credit. Let us worry about the infrastructure, and get querying! ## When should I use ClickHouse for vector search? [\#](/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p2#when-should-i-use-clickhouse-for-vector-search)

ClickHouse is a real\-time OLAP database with full SQL support and a wide range of functions to assist users in writing analytical queries. Some of these functions and data structures perform distance operations between vectors, enabling ClickHouse to be used as a vector database.

Due to the fully parallelized query pipeline, ClickHouse can process vector search operations very quickly, especially when performing exact matching through a linear scan over all rows, delivering processing speed comparable to dedicated vector databases.

High compression levels, tunable through custom compression codecs, enable very large datasets to be stored and queried. ClickHouse is not memory\-bound, allowing multi\-TB datasets containing embeddings to be queried.

The capabilities for computing the distance between two vectors are just another SQL function and can be effectively combined with more traditional SQL filtering and aggregation capabilities. This allows vectors to be stored and queried alongside metadata, and even rich text, enabling a broad array of use cases and applications.

Finally, experimental ClickHouse capabilities like Approximate Nearest Neighbour (ANN) indices support faster approximate matching of vectors and provide a promising development aimed to further enhance the vector matching capabilities of ClickHouse.

In summary, ClickHouse is an effective platform for vector search when any of the following are true:
