---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: vector-search-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '0.33110910654067993'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 28
---

where ClickHouse may be less appropriate as a vector storage engine, and you may wish to consider alternatives such as [Faiss](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss), or a dedicated vector database. Today ClickHouse may provide fewer benefits as a vector search engine if:

- Your vector dataset is small and easily fits in memory. While ClickHouse can easily accomplish vector search for small datasets, it may be more powerful than is needed in this case.
- You have no additional metadata with the vectors and need distance matching and sorting only. If joining vector search results with other metadata isn’t useful, and your dataset is small, then as described above, ClickHouse may be more powerful than you really need.
- You have a very high QPS, greater than several thousand per second. Typically, for these use cases, the dataset will fit in memory, and matching times of a few ms are required. While ClickHouse can serve these use cases, a simple in\-memory index is probably sufficient.
- You need a solution that includes embedding generation capabilities out\-of\-the\-box, where a model is integrated at insert and query time. Vector databases, such as Weaviate, are specifically designed for this use case and may be more appropriate given these needs.

With this in mind, let's explore the vector capabilities of ClickHouse.

## Setting up an example [\#](/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p2#setting-up-an-example)

### The LAION dataset [\#](/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p2#the-laion-dataset)

As discussed in our previous post, vector search operates on embeddings – vectors representing a contextual meaning. Embeddings are generated by passing raw content, such as images or text, through a pre\-trained machine learning model.

For this post, we used a prepared set of embeddings, available publicly for download, called the [LAION 5 billion test set](https://laion.ai/blog/laion-5b/). We selected this dataset because we believe at the time of writing this to be the largest available dataset of pre\-computed embeddings available for testing. It consists of embeddings with a dimension of 768 for several billion public images on the internet and their captions, generated through a public crawl of the internet. Created with the explicit purpose of testing vector search at scale, it also includes metadata that is in turn useful for illustrating how to combine general purpose analytics capabilities of ClickHouse with vector search.
