---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: vector-search-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '0.33110910654067993'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 28
---

crawl of the internet. Created with the explicit purpose of testing vector search at scale, it also includes metadata that is in turn useful for illustrating how to combine general purpose analytics capabilities of ClickHouse with vector search.

In the LAION dataset, embeddings have been generated for each image and its associated caption \- giving us two embeddings for each object. For this post, we have focused on the English subset only, which consists of a reduced 2\.2 billion objects. Although each of these objects has two embeddings, one for its image and one caption, respectively, we store each pair as a single row in ClickHouse, giving us almost 2\.2 billion rows in total and 4\.4 billion vectors. For each row, we include the metadata as columns, which captures information such as the image dimensions, the similarity of the image, and caption embedding. This similarity, a cosine distance, allows us to identify objects where the caption and image do not conceptually align, potentially filtering these out in queries.

We want to acknowledge the effort required by the original authors to collate this dataset and produce the embeddings for public use. We recommend reading the full [process for generating](https://laion.ai/blog/laion-5b/) this dataset, which overcame a number of challenging data engineering challenges, such as downloading and resizing billions of images efficiently and in a reasonable time and at an acceptable cost.

### Using the CLIP model to generate embeddings [\#](/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p2#using-the-clip-model-to-generate-embeddings)

These LAION embeddings were generated with the ViT\-L/14 model, trained by LAION using [openCLIP](https://laion.ai/blog/large-openclip/), an open source implementation of the [CLIP model developed by OpenAI](https://openai.com/research/clip). This isn't a cheap process! On 400 million images, this took around 30 days and needed 592 V100 GPUs (about $1M on AWS on\-demand instances).

CLIP (Contrastive Language–Image Pre\-training) is a multi\-modal model, which means that it is designed to train multiple related types of data, such as images and associated text. CLIP has proved effective at learning visual representations of text with promising results in OCR, geolocalisation, and action recognition. For encoding of the images, the authors of CLIP used Resnet50 and Vision Transformer (ViT), and for the encoding of the text used a transformer similar to GPT\-2 . Resulting embeddings are represented as two separate sets of vectors.
