---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-header&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: vector-search-with-clickhouse-part-2
ch_version_introduced: '0.33110910654067993'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 28
---

functions*. ClickHouse supports a wide range of distance functions \- you can choose which is most appropriate for you, given your use case. For this post, we focus on two which are very commonly used in vector search:

- **Cosine Distance** \- `cosineDistance(vector1, vector2)` \- This gives us a Cosine distance between 2 vectors (1 \- cosine similarity). More specifically, this measures the cosine of the angle between two vectors, i.e. the dot product divided by the length. This produces a value between \-1 and 1, where 1 indicates the two embeddings are [proportional](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Proportionality_(mathematics)) and thus conceptually identical. A column name and input embedding can be parsed for vector search. This function is particularly relevant if the vectors have not been normalized, as well as delivering a bounded range useful for filtering.
- **L2 Distance**\- `L2Distance(vector1, vector2)` \- This measures the L2 distance between 2 points. Effectively this is the [Euclidean distance](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euclidean_distance) between two input vectors, i.e. the length of the line between the points represented by the vectors. The lower the distance, the more conceptually similar the source objects.

Both functions compute a score that is used to compare vector embeddings. For our pre\-trained CLIP model, **L2 Distance** represents the most appropriate distance function based on the internal scoring used for the [official examples](https://codeandlife.com/2023/01/26/mastering-the-huggingface-clip-model-how-to-extract-embeddings-and-calculate-similarity-for-text-and-images/).

For a full list of available distance and vector normalization functions, [see here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/distance-functions). We would love to hear how you utilize these to search your embeddings!

### Generating an input vector [\#](/blog/vector-search-clickhouse-p2#generating-an-input-vector)

Now that we’ve identified which *distance function* we’ll be using, we need to transform the input (the image or caption we want to search) into a vector embedding.

This requires us to invoke the CLIP model. This is easily achieved through a simple Python script. The instructions for installing the dependencies for this script can be found [here](github.com/clickHouse/laion). We show this script below:
