---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/awslabs/open-data-docs/tree/main/docs/noaa/noaa-ghcn
topic: exploring-massive-real-world-data-sets-100-years-of-weather-records-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '13.36'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 14
---

Processed 1.06 billion rows, 22.71 GB (354.76 million rows/s., 7.57 GB/s.) ``` ``` Finally, as an avid skier, I was personally curious about the best place to have skied in the United States in the last 5 yrs.

Using a list of [ski resorts in the united states](https://gist.github.com/Ewiseman/b251e5eaf70ca52a4b9b10dce9e635a4) and their respective locations, we join these against the top 1000 weather stations with the most in any month in the last 5 yrs. Sorting this join by [geoDistance](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/geo/coordinates/#geodistance) and restricting the results to those where the distance is less than 20km, we select the top result per resort and sort this by total snow. Note we also restrict resorts to those above 1800m, as a broad indicator of good skiing conditions.

```

```
SELECT
   resort_name,
   total_snow / 1000 AS total_snow_m,
   resort_location,
   month_year
FROM
(
   WITH resorts AS
       (
           SELECT
               resort_name,
               state,
               (lon, lat) AS resort_location,
               'US' AS code
           FROM url('https://gist.githubusercontent.com/Ewiseman/b251e5eaf70ca52a4b9b10dce9e635a4/raw/9f0100fe14169a058c451380edca3bda24d3f673/ski_resort_stats.csv', CSVWithNames)
       )
   SELECT
       resort_name,
       highest_snow.station_id,
       geoDistance(resort_location.1, resort_location.2, station_location.1, station_location.2) / 1000 AS distance_km,
       highest_snow.total_snow,
       resort_location,
       station_location,
       month_year
   FROM
   (
       SELECT
           sum(snowfall) AS total_snow,
           station_id,
           any(location) AS station_location,
           month_year,
           substring(station_id, 1, 2) AS code
       FROM noaa
       WHERE (date > '2017-01-01') AND (code = 'US') AND (elevation > 1800)
       GROUP BY
           station_id,
           toYYYYMM(date) AS month_year
       ORDER BY total_snow DESC
       LIMIT 1000
   ) AS highest_snow
   INNER JOIN resorts ON highest_snow.code = resorts.code
   WHERE distance_km < 20
   ORDER BY
       resort_name ASC,
       total_snow DESC
   LIMIT 1 BY
       resort_name,
       station_id
)
ORDER BY total_snow DESC
LIMIT 5
  

┌─resort_name──────────┬─total_snow_m─┬─resort_location─┬─month_year─┐
│ Sugar Bowl, CA       │        7.799 │ (-120.3,39.27)  │     201902 │
│ Donner Ski Ranch, CA │        7.799 │ (-120.34,39.31) │     201902 │
│ Boreal, CA           │        7.799 │ (-120.35,39.33) │     201902 │
│ Homewood, CA         │        4.926 │ (-120.17,39.08) │     201902 │
│ Alpine Meadows, CA   │        4.926 │ (-120.22,39.17) │     201902 │
└──────────────────────┴──────────────┴─────────────────┴────────────┘
 

5 rows in set. Elapsed: 2.119 sec. Processed 989.55 million rows, 24.99 GB (467.07 million rows/s., 11.80 GB/s.)
```


```

Please don’t use the results as advice for planning your future holiday destinations, not least because altitude and volume of snow !\= quality of skiing.

In the next post in this series we’ll delve into this dataset in more detail and try to answer some more interesting questions, as well explore some visualization techniques for geo data.

## Acknowledgments [\#](/blog/real-world-data-noaa-climate-data#acknowledgments)
