---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://presentations.clickhouse.com/meetup54/keeper.pdf>
topic: using-clickhouse-keeper-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '23.9'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

# Using clickhouse\-keeper \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Setup \& maintenance](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/)
2. [ZooKeeper](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-zookeeper/)
3. Using clickhouse\-keeper
# Using clickhouse\-keeper

Moving to the ClickHouse® alternative to ZookeeperSince 2021 the development of built\-in ClickHouse® alternative for Zookeeper is happening, whose goal is to address several design pitfalls, and get rid of extra dependency.

See slides: <https://presentations.clickhouse.com/meetup54/keeper.pdf>
and video [https://youtu.be/IfgtdU1Mrm0?t\=2682](https://youtu.be/IfgtdU1Mrm0?t=2682)

## Current status (last updated: March 2026\)

ClickHouse Keeper is the recommended choice for new installations. It yields better performance in many cases due to the new features, like async replication or multi read. Some ClickHouse server features cannot be used without Keeper, for example the S3Queue.

- Use the latest Keeper version available in your supported upgrade path whenever possible.
- The Keeper version doesn’t need to match the ClickHouse server version
- Modern Keeper usually performs better than older versions because the codebase has matured significantly, new protocol feature flags have been added, and internal replication has improved.

For existing systems that currently use Apache Zookeeper, you can consider upgrading to clickhouse\-keeper especially if you will [upgrade ClickHouse](https://altinity.com/clickhouse-upgrade-overview/)
also.

#### Warning

Before upgrading ClickHouse Keeper from version older than 23\.9 please check Upgrade caveat for async\_replication [Upgrade caveat for async\_replication](https://kb.altinity.com/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-zookeeper/clickhouse-keeper#upgrade-caveat-for-async_replication)## How does clickhouse\-keeper differ from Zookeeper?

Keeper is optimized for ClickHouse workloads and written in C\+\+ (and can be used as single\-binary), so it don’t need any external dependencies. It uses the same **client** protocol but both are implementing different consensus protocol: Zookeeper is using ZAB, while ClickHouse Keeper implements eBay NuRAFT [GitHub \- eBay/NuRaft: C\+\+ implementation of Raft core logic as a replication library](https://github.com/eBay/NuRaft)
which improves stability and performance of base RAFT protocol.

ClickHouse Keeper can also run in embedded mode, operating as a separate thread within the ClickHouse server process, which may be suitable for testing purposes or smaller instances where some performance can be sacrificed for simplicity

## Migration and upgrade guide
