---
source: blog
url: http://www.clickhouse.com
topic: clickhouse-announces-strategic-collaboration-agreement-with-aws-to-advance-real-time-data-analytics-and-generative-ai-innovation
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

on AWS Marketplace in 2024\. Now with the strategic collaboration agreement, we strengthen focus on integrations, joint solutions and go\-to\-market activities to help customers unlock the full potential of their data and drive innovation in their respective industries.”

“We continue to invest in helping growth\-stage companies, like ClickHouse, leverage AWS infrastructure, resources, and services like AWS Marketplace to rapidly grow and scale their businesses,” said Julia Chen, Vice President AWS Partner Core. “By integrating ClickHouse Cloud with AWS services such as Amazon Bedrock, customers can leverage the strength of both companies to more easily build advanced real\-time applications, such as instant fraud detection, adaptive user experiences, and dynamic operational intelligence—unlocking new possibilities to stay ahead in today’s competitive landscape.”

Helping customers get the best business value from their data lake and data analytics investments is central to the collaboration between ClickHouse and AWS. Since launching ClickHouse Cloud on AWS in 2022, thousands of ClickHouse deployments have already been created, supporting joint customers ranging from startups to Fortune 500 companies. Every day, ClickHouse customers on AWS run over 2 billion queries scanning over 1\.5 quadrillion records on top of 50 petabytes of data.

"By migrating our analytics workloads to ClickHouse Cloud on AWS we simplified the integration with data residing in AWS, achieved significant improvement in query performance, and project much lower annual costs. This has let us build new features faster that help our customers better understand their consumers and how their engagement strategies are performing," said Jon Hyman, Cofounder and Chief Technology Officer at Braze \[NASDAQ: BRZE].

This collaboration underscores the value of ClickHouse and AWS to provide flexibility and unlock greater business value for customers across industries. For more information please visit: [www.clickhouse.com](http://www.clickhouse.com)

### **About ClickHouse** [\#](/blog/clickhouse-announces-strategic-collaboration-agreement-with-aws-to-advance-real-time-data-analytics-and-generative-ai-innovation#about-clickhouse)

ClickHouse is a fast, open\-source columnar database management system that allows for real\-time data processing and analytics. Engineered for high performance, ClickHouse Cloud delivers exceptional query speed, making it an ideal solution for handling large volumes of data. Trusted by leading companies like Lyft, Deutsche Bank, and LangChain, ClickHouse Cloud enables businesses to gain critical insights and drive decision\-making with its scalable, efficient, and robust data infrastructure. For more information, visit clickhouse.com.
