---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs/guides/best-practices/sparse-primary-indexes#the-primary-index-has-one-entry-per-granule
topic: index-based-pruning-in-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '5.366'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 15
---

a high\-level understanding of each of the pruning techniques, let’s learn how to put them into action on a real\-life dataset. We’ll be using the [UK property prices dataset](https://clickhouse.com/docs/getting-started/example-datasets/uk-price-paid), which contains details of property sales in the UK.

We’ll run all queries on an Apple Mac M2 Max with 64GB of RAM.

### Ingesting the UK property dataset [\#](/blog/index-based-pruning#ingesting-the-uk-property-dataset)

Let’s start by creating the table:

```

```
1CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE uk_price_paid
2(
3    price UInt32,
4    date Date,
5    postcode1 LowCardinality(String),
6    postcode2 LowCardinality(String),
7    type Enum8('terraced' = 1, 'semi-detached' = 2, 'detached' = 3, 'flat' = 4, 'other' = 0),
8    is_new UInt8,
9    duration Enum8('freehold' = 1, 'leasehold' = 2, 'unknown' = 0),
10    addr1 String,
11    addr2 String,
12    street LowCardinality(String),
13    locality LowCardinality(String),
14    town LowCardinality(String),
15    district LowCardinality(String),
16    county LowCardinality(String)
17)
18ENGINE = MergeTree
19ORDER BY (postcode1, postcode2, addr1, addr2);
```

```

The primary key (which is the same as the order by statement unless otherwise specified) is `(postcode1, postcode2, addr1, addr2)`.

Once the table’s created, we’ll ingest the data:

```

```
1INSERT INTO uk_price_paid
2SELECT *
3FROM file('uk_all.parquet');
```

```

I created `uk_all.parquet` by first importing the data from `pp-complete.csv` ([as documented](https://clickhouse.com/docs/getting-started/example-datasets/uk-price-paid#preprocess-import-data)) and then exporting it to Parquet.

The output of running the insert query is shown below:

```

```
130452463 rows in set. Elapsed: 5.366 sec. Processed 30.45 million rows, 170.44 MB (5.68 million rows/s., 31.76 MB/s.)
2Peak memory usage: 774.00 MiB.
```

```

This dataset contains 30 million rows, which is relatively small by ClickHouse’s standards. We could increase the amount of data by ingesting the Parquet multiple times, but there’s a faster way, using [`ATTACH PARTITION`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/statements/alter/partition#attach-partitionpart).

The following command duplicates all the parts in the table, doubling the amount of data:

```

```
1ALTER TABLE uk_price_paid 
2ATTACH PARTITION ID 'all' 
3FROM uk_price_paid;
```

```

I ran it several times so that we have a decent amount of data to work with. For reference, the following is the output from running the query three times:

```
0 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.167 sec.

0 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.458 sec.

0 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.412 sec.

```

We can write the following query to return the count of records in our table:

```

```
1SELECT count()
2FROM uk_price_paid;
```

```
