---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

columns), retaining only the row with the latest `_peerdb_version`. DELETEs from PostgreSQL are propagated as new rows marked as deleted (using the `_peerdb_is_deleted` column). The snippet below shows the target table definition for the `public_goals` table in ClickHouse.

```
clickhouse-cloud :) SHOW CREATE TABLE public_goals;
CREATE TABLE peerdb.public_goals
(
    `id` Int64,
    `owned_user_id` String,
    `goal_title` String,
    `goal_data` String,
    `enabled` Bool,
    `ts` DateTime64(6),
    `_peerdb_synced_at` DateTime64(9) DEFAULT now(),
    `_peerdb_is_deleted` Int8,
    `_peerdb_version` Int64
)
ENGINE = SharedReplacingMergeTree
('/clickhouse/tables/{uuid}/{shard}', '{replica}', _peerdb_version)
PRIMARY KEY id
ORDER BY id
SETTINGS index_granularity = 8192

```

## You might still see duplicates for rows—how should you handle them? [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips#you-might-still-see-duplicates-for-rowshow-should-you-handle-them)

ReplacingMergeTree clears out duplicates asynchronously in the background but doesn't guarantee the absence of duplicates. So, when you query the data, you might still see duplicates for the same row or primary key but with different versions. This is expected. To remove duplicates, you have a couple of approaches:

### Use FINAL in your queries [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips#use-final-in-your-queries)

ClickHouse has a unique modifier called [FINAL](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/from#final-modifier), which performs de\-duplication (merging of rows) at query time. This de\-duplication occurs after filtering (WHERE clause) but before aggregations (GROUP BY).

A historical concern has been that FINAL can slow down query performance. While it does impact query performance to some extent, recent releases of ClickHouse have introduced [significant improvements](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/11722) to enhance FINAL query performance. So, don’t hesitate to use the FINAL clause and evaluate how your queries perform. Below is an example of how to use the FINAL clause:

```
SELECT owner_user_id, COUNT(*) FROM goals FINAL 
WHERE enabled = true GROUP BY owner_user_id;

```

### Use argMax to deduplicate rows at query time [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips#use-argmax-to-deduplicate-rows-at-query-time)

In ClickHouse, [argMax](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference/argmax) is a powerful function for deduplicating rows dynamically during query execution. This is particularly useful when you need to retain the most recent or relevant record based on a versioning or timestamp column.

For instance, if you're working with a table like `peerdb.public_goals`, where id is the primary key and `_peerdb_version` tracks versions, you can use argMax to select the row with the highest `_peerdb_version` for each `id`. This approach allows you to efficiently remove duplicates without altering the underlying data. You can then run your aggregations as a subquery over this deduplicated result set for further analysis. Below query is an example of using argMax
