---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

indexes in Postgres, but in ClickHouse, the data is automatically sorted based on the ordering key via asynchronous merging of parts, so you don’t need to handle sorting during data ingestion. ### Choosing an appropriate Ordering Key [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips#choosing-an-appropriate-ordering-key)

When selecting an ordering key, base your choice on the columns most frequently used in your query filters. **Prioritize columns that are commonly used in WHERE clauses, and order them in ascending sequence of cardinality**—starting with columns that have the fewest distinct values. This approach optimizes data compression and query performance. For a deeper understanding of this topic, refer to the detailed guide [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/data-modeling/schema-design#choosing-an-ordering-key).

### **PRIMARY KEY vs Ordering Key** [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips#primary-key-vs-ordering-key)

If you observe the table definition of `public_goals`, it has a `PRIMARY KEY`. You might be wondering how the `PRIMARY KEY` differs from the Ordering Key. Let us understand how they differ:

1. `PRIMARY KEY`, if specified, defines the columns in the sparse index, while the columns in the `ORDER BY` clause determine how the data is sorted on disk. They are also used for deduplicating data by the `ReplacingMergeTree`.
2. If the `PRIMARY KEY` isn't specified, the Ordering Key automatically becomes the `PRIMARY KEY` and defines the columns in the sparse index.

> **NOTE:** Columns in the `PRIMARY KEY` should always be prefixed in the Ordering Key. This ensures that the index aligns with the physical data order, maximizing query performance by minimizing unnecessary data scans.

**An example where** `PRIMARY KEY` **could differ from Ordering Key**

An example where you might have different `PRIMARY KEY` and `ORDER BY` columns is when your queries are primarily filtered on `customer_id` rather than `id`. In this case, you can define the `PRIMARY KEY` on just `customer_id` and the `ORDER BY` on `customer_id, id`. This approach ensures a smaller, more efficient sparse index for querying, while data deduplication occurs on `id`, ensuring no data is lost.

> **NOTE:** Unlike in Postgres, where the `PRIMARY KEY` is a B\-tree index that guarantees uniqueness, in ClickHouse, it does not ensure uniqueness. Instead, it defines the columns that should be part of the sparse index.

### Modifying the Ordering Key [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips#modifying-the-ordering-key)
