---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-welcomes-peerdb-adding-the-fastest-postgres-cdc-to-the-fastest-olap-database
topic: postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 8
---

Postgres, where the `PRIMARY KEY` is a B\-tree index that guarantees uniqueness, in ClickHouse, it does not ensure uniqueness. Instead, it defines the columns that should be part of the sparse index. ### Modifying the Ordering Key [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips#modifying-the-ordering-key)

Choosing the right [ordering key](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/migrations/postgresql/designing-schemas#primary-ordering-keys-in-clickhouse) is crucial for query performance in ClickHouse, as it acts as an index when querying data. By default, PeerDB uses the PostgreSQL `PRIMARY KEY` to define the ordering key in ClickHouse tables, but you can change it using the following methods:

### Use materialized views [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips#use-materialized-views)

You can use materialized views to create a new table with a different ordering key suitable for your workload. Include the primary key columns at the end of the ordering key to ensure proper deduplication, as ReplacingMergeTree uses the ORDER BY clause for deduplication, and including the primary key ensures that no data is lost.

```
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW goals_mv
ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree(_peerdb_version)
ORDER BY (enabled, ts, id)  POPULATE AS
SELECT * FROM peerdb.public_goals;

```

**NOTE:** After creating the materialized view, be sure to follow the steps described in the previous section on handling duplicates to ensure proper deduplication during query time.

### Predefine target tables with the desired Ordering Key [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips#predefine-target-tables-with-the-desired-ordering-key)

To change the ordering key, you can predefine new tables with your desired Ordering Key and then swap them with the existing tables. Here's how you can do it:

**1\. Create a Dummy Mirror:** Create a dummy mirror in PeerDB to generate the default tables with the correct metadata columns and data types.

**2\. Create a New Table with the Desired Ordering Key:** Use the table created by PeerDB to define a new table with your desired ordering key. Include the primary key columns at the end of the ordering key to ensure proper deduplication. Here is an example:

```
CREATE TABLE public_events_new AS public_events
ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree(_peerdb_version)
ORDER BY (user_id,id);

```

**3\. Drop the Old Table:**

```
DROP TABLE public_events;

```

**4\. Rename the New Table:** Rename the new table to the actual table

```
RENAME TABLE public_events_new TO public_events;

```

**5\. Start MIRROR to Point to the New Table:** Configure the mirror to point to the actual table. PeerDB uses `CREATE TABLE IF NOT EXISTS` behind the scenes and continues to ingest data into the new table.

## Handling DELETEs [\#](/blog/postgres-to-clickhouse-data-modeling-tips#handling-deletes)
