---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/data-types/decimal.md)#
topic: decimal-decimal-p-decimal-p-s-decimal32-s-decimal64-s-decimal128-s-decimal256-s-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: '2.0000'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

Decimal256 are emulated. Thus, Decimal128 and Decimal256 work significantly slower than Decimal32/Decimal64\. ## Operations and Result Type[​](#operations-and-result-type "Direct link to Operations and Result Type") Binary operations on Decimal result in wider result type (with any order of arguments).

- `Decimal64(S1) <op> Decimal32(S2) -> Decimal64(S)`
- `Decimal128(S1) <op> Decimal32(S2) -> Decimal128(S)`
- `Decimal128(S1) <op> Decimal64(S2) -> Decimal128(S)`
- `Decimal256(S1) <op> Decimal<32|64|128>(S2) -> Decimal256(S)`


Rules for scale:

- add, subtract: S \= max(S1, S2\).
- multiply: S \= S1 \+ S2\.
- divide: S \= S1\.

For similar operations between Decimal and integers, the result is Decimal of the same size as an argument.

Operations between Decimal and Float32/Float64 are not defined. If you need them, you can explicitly cast one of argument using toDecimal32, toDecimal64, toDecimal128 or toFloat32, toFloat64 builtins. Keep in mind that the result will lose precision and type conversion is a computationally expensive operation.

Some functions on Decimal return result as Float64 (for example, var or stddev). Intermediate calculations might still be performed in Decimal, which might lead to different results between Float64 and Decimal inputs with the same values.

## Overflow Checks[​](#overflow-checks "Direct link to Overflow Checks")

During calculations on Decimal, integer overflows might happen. Excessive digits in a fraction are discarded (not rounded). Excessive digits in integer part will lead to an exception.

NoteOverflow check is not implemented for Decimal128 and Decimal256\. In case of overflow incorrect result is returned, no exception is thrown.

```
SELECT toDecimal32(2, 4) AS x, x / 3

```

```
┌──────x─┬─divide(toDecimal32(2, 4), 3)─┐
│ 2.0000 │                       0.6666 │
└────────┴──────────────────────────────┘

```

```
SELECT toDecimal32(4.2, 8) AS x, x * x

```

```
DB::Exception: Scale is out of bounds.

```

```
SELECT toDecimal32(4.2, 8) AS x, 6 * x

```

```
DB::Exception: Decimal math overflow.

```

Overflow checks lead to operations slowdown. If it is known that overflows are not possible, it makes sense to disable checks using `decimal_check_overflow` setting. When checks are disabled and overflow happens, the result will be incorrect:

```
SET decimal_check_overflow = 0;
SELECT toDecimal32(4.2, 8) AS x, 6 * x

```

```
┌──────────x─┬─multiply(6, toDecimal32(4.2, 8))─┐
│ 4.20000000 │                     -17.74967296 │
└────────────┴──────────────────────────────────┘

```

Overflow checks happen not only on arithmetic operations but also on value comparison:

```
SELECT toDecimal32(1, 8) < 100

```

```
DB::Exception: Can't compare.

```

**See also**
