---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: migrating-to-clickhouse-cloud-in-just-three-months-with-no-downtime-a-120-terabyte-data-journey-and-its-benefits
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

which was replaced by Amazon S3\. 2. Three different Airflow deployments. The latest version on excellent hardware handles the entire load perfectly. 3. Numerous unnecessary configs and scripts for the setup and maintenance of old servers. **Advantages gained:**

1. The system as a whole has become simpler, faster, and more reliable.
2. The layer of admins between the code and the result has become thinner. Our team now has more control and capabilities, and we can use them without involving admins. They can add the necessary software to Python and scale up and down without involving administrators, reducing intermediate steps in routine operations.
3. We received excellent hardware from Amazon. This is especially true with the new Airflow. Fast S3, along with a super\-fast network and disks, has significantly sped up our ETL.
4. We gained the ability to scale 2x, 5x, or 10x in minutes when needed. For example, when an integration is temporarily broken on the data provider's side, and we need to accept more data than usual quickly.
5. We received the latest version of ClickHouse, and ongoing upgrades on a rolling basis managed by the ClickHouse Team, which includes numerous new features and optimizations we need to try:

- New convenient functions for calculating everything;
- Optimizations that can speed up some of our queries;
- New features related to data storage that can potentially save us space (which affects costs) and also speed up queries;
- Features that will help our ETLs become faster, more reliable, and more straightforward.
