---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: migrating-to-clickhouse-cloud-in-just-three-months-with-no-downtime-a-120-terabyte-data-journey-and-its-benefits
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

calculate the available free resources in the cluster, estimate their speed, multiply by the volume of calculations, and get the deadline for completion — assuming everything went well, there were no critical failures, and the cluster remained stable.

Now, we can instantly add computing power on both the ETL and DBMS sides. This means tasks are completed faster, proportional to the resources used.

> By achieving results faster at the exact resource cost, the business naturally benefits.

## Have any new problems come with it? [\#](/blog/migrating-to-clickhouse-cloud-in-just-three-months-with-no-downtime-a-120-terabyte-data-journey-and-its-benefits#have-any-new-problems-come-with-it)

Not exactly new problems, but a new reality. Life in the cloud follows different rules. The cloud is usually merciless in terms of cost. You pay for every byte sent over the network and every processor cycle used. And if you don’t use it to its full potential, it’s still running idle. This forces us to implement algorithms and architectures to maximize efficiency.

However, all this has a positive effect from all this. Combined with very fast scaling and super\-powerful hardware, it’s possible to increase system performance multiple times with minimal effort.

The architecture of the new cluster is also significantly different from what we had. What worked well for us in the past turned out to be ineffective in the new cluster. But new solutions have emerged to address the same problems. During the move, we adjusted to the new reality.

## Migration Timeline [\#](/blog/migrating-to-clickhouse-cloud-in-just-three-months-with-no-downtime-a-120-terabyte-data-journey-and-its-benefits#migration-timeline)

**July.** We began active work on the migration. For a month, we engaged with the ClickHouse team, gradually familiarizing ourselves with the product and conducting small experiments.

**August.** Realizing the need for a thorough trial, we started moving data. We aimed to complete the transfer within a month, or at most six weeks, while also performing the necessary refactoring, which would also take about a month. This is where our first mistake surfaced. Our two engineers were frequently distracted by business\-related tasks, causing delays. Consequently, we could only complete some things within the planned timeframe.

**September.** We spent the entire month moving data and making the necessary adjustments.
