---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp?loc=blog-cta-footer&utm_source=clickhouse&utm_medium=web&utm_campaign=blog
topic: migrating-to-clickhouse-cloud-in-just-three-months-with-no-downtime-a-120-terabyte-data-journey-and-its-benefits
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 10
---

first mistake surfaced. Our two engineers were frequently distracted by business\-related tasks, causing delays. Consequently, we could only complete some things within the planned timeframe. **September.** We spent the entire month moving data and making the necessary adjustments.

**October.** This month was initially planned as a safety net. We completed the pending tasks and conducted thorough testing. By the end of September, we discovered problems in the data merging process that we had yet to notice earlier. During the first half of October, we continued adding data. In the second half, we focused on ensuring that all data was transferred correctly. Despite our efforts, the work still needed to be finished by the end of October.

**November.** With one month left, it seemed like we were able to breathe a little and focus on transferring and verifying the data more meticulously. Accuracy was our top priority. The team did an incredible job. By mid\-November, we were almost ready to switch over the analytics to the new system.

We made the switch on November 21st and immediately encountered two unpleasant bugs. Some queries in ClickHouse started behaving differently than expected. We reported the issues to the ClickHouse team, who quickly provided a workaround for the first issue and fixed the second one on their end.

By November 23rd, we had switched our BI operations to the new ClickHouse system.

On November 27th, we signed the contract and shut down the old servers.

**Total**: 3 months of active work.

## Why the ClickHouse team is a treat to work with [\#](/blog/migrating-to-clickhouse-cloud-in-just-three-months-with-no-downtime-a-120-terabyte-data-journey-and-its-benefits#why-the-clickhouse-team-is-a-treat-to-work-with)

> The architecture of ClickHouse Cloud differs significantly from the traditional on\-premises setup. This led to us having some issues during the testing phase. The ClickHouse team was very supportive, helping us find alternative solutions and even quickly making code changes in ClickHouse specifically for our needs.

## Summary [\#](/blog/migrating-to-clickhouse-cloud-in-just-three-months-with-no-downtime-a-120-terabyte-data-journey-and-its-benefits#summary)

In just three months, we deployed a new, more technically advanced solution. This allowed us to achieve nearly 100% reliability in storage and service, provided potential for future growth, and freed up significant time for our engineers. The benefits gained from these improvements more than justify the slightly increased cost of maintenance.
