---
source: blog
url: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/ClickHouse/clickhousedbops/latest
topic: new-terraform-provider-manage-clickhouse-database-users-roles-and-privileges-with-code
ch_version_introduced: '0.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

the same with ClickHouse. You want to first login to your ClickHouse Cloud account. Then once you login, you can create an [API token and secret](https://clickhouse.com/docs/cloud/manage/openapi) from your ClickHouse cloud organization in order to allow terraform to connect.

Now you want to define a new ClickHouse Cloud service called “Log Analytics” using Terraform. You can create a main.tf file to configure the [Clickhouse provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/ClickHouse/clickhouse/latest/docs#example-usage). You want to define your new ClickHouse Cloud [service resource](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/ClickHouse/clickhouse/latest/docs/resources/service#example-usage) in the AWS us\-east\-1 region named “Log Analytics” in the same file.

> Note: We do not recommend storing credentials in your terraform files, see docs [here](https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/language/values/variables) for help creating a separate variables file.

Main.tf file

```

```
terraform {
  required_providers {
    clickhouse = {
      source  = "ClickHouse/clickhouse"
    }
   }
}

locals {
  # Please don't do this :)
  password = "test"
}

# Configuration-based authentication, replace with your own values
provider "clickhouse" {
  organization_id = ""
  token_key       = ""
  token_secret    = ""
}

resource "clickhouse_service" "service" {
  name           = "Log Analytics"
  cloud_provider = "aws"
  region         = "us-east-1"
  idle_scaling   = true
  min_replica_memory_gb  = 8
  max_replica_memory_gb  = 16
  num_replicas = 3
  idle_timeout_minutes = 5

  # for this example this service will be open to all internet connections
  ip_access = [
    {
      source      = "0.0.0.0/0"
      description = "Test IP"
    }
  ]
  password_hash = sha256(local.password)
}
```

```

### Step 2: Managing users, roles, and privileges [\#](/blog/new-terraform-provider-manage-clickhouse-database-users-roles-and-privileges-with-code#step-2-managing-users-roles-and-privileges)

Now that you have your new service defined you want to add your team to a new database called “logs” in the new “Log Analytics” service you created. The following are the requirements for your team to define in Terraform:

1. Your team has 3 users \- Ryan, Jill, and Carol.
2. Ryan is responsible for running analytic queries only on the email logs table in the database, but does not need read access to any other tables.
3. Jill and Carol are responsible for running analytic queries only on the phone logs table in the database, but do not need read access to any other tables.

In order to satisfy these requirements, you decide to use Terraform and the new [Clickhousedbops provider](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/ClickHouse/clickhousedbops/latest/docs#example-usage) to configure these users, roles, and grant privileges. First you add the terraform provider to the required\_providers block at the top of the same main.tf terraform file.
