---
source: blog
url: https://registry.terraform.io/providers/ClickHouse/clickhousedbops/latest
topic: new-terraform-provider-manage-clickhouse-database-users-roles-and-privileges-with-code
ch_version_introduced: '0.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

minutes you will have the clickhouse service and the database resources created. ``` ``` % terraform apply Terraform used the selected providers to generate the following execution plan. Resource actions are indicated with the following symbols: + create

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # clickhouse_service.service will be created
  + resource "clickhouse_service" "service" {
      + backup_configuration        = (known after apply)
      + cloud_provider              = "aws"
      + endpoints                   = (known after apply)
      + iam_role                    = (known after apply)
      + id                          = (known after apply)
      + idle_scaling                = true
      + idle_timeout_minutes        = 5
...
clickhouse_service.service: Creating...
clickhouse_service.service: Still creating... [10s elapsed]
...
clickhouse_service.service: Creation complete after 6m36s 
...
clickhousedbops_role.reader_email_logs: Creating...
clickhousedbops_role.reader_phone_logs: Creating...
clickhousedbops_database.logs: Creating...
clickhousedbops_user.ryan: Creating...
clickhousedbops_user.carol: Creating...
clickhousedbops_user.jill: Creating...
...
Apply complete! Resources: 12 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

```

After this you can use the [ClickHouse Client CLI](https://clickhouse.com/docs/interfaces/cli) to login as the default user and create two tables “email\_logs” and “phone\_logs” in this logs database, load the intended data into each, and then confirm that the correct users were created and that each user has the correct role and database privileges.

Tip: connect to the database and run the SQL command “SELECT \* FROM system.role\_grants” to see all database users and roles for each.

Congratulations! You have successfully used both of the officially supported ClickHouse Terraform providers for configuring your ClickHouse Cloud service, database, users, roles, and database privileges.

### Managing self\-hosted ClickHouse with Terraform [\#](/blog/new-terraform-provider-manage-clickhouse-database-users-roles-and-privileges-with-code#managing-self-hosted-clickhouse-with-terraform)

Now let’s say that you are not a ClickHouse Cloud customer (free trial offered [here!](https://clickhouse.com/)). This new clickhousedbops provider also has support for our customers who want to use Terraform for managing their self\-hosted ClickHouse database users, roles, and grant privileges in their own self hosted cloud or on\-prem environment.

To support these open source ClickHouse deployments, if users have multiple replicas then a “cluster\_name” variable (database resource [example](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/ClickHouse/clickhousedbops/latest/docs/resources/role#optional)) can be defined in each of the clickhousedbops resource definitions. This will create the resources in all of the replicas in that cluster. If omitted, that resource will be created on the replica hit by the query. We recommend that this should always be set when hitting a cluster with more than one replica.
