---
source: blog
url: https://yandex.ru>
topic: concept-cloud-mergetree-tables
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

the sharding scheme of data on a cluster. The data in the cloud tables are distributed around the cluster on its own, while at the same time providing the locality property for a certain key. ## Requirements [\#](/blog/concept-cloud-merge-tree-tables#requirements)

1. Creating a cloud table makes it visible on all nodes of the cluster. No need to manually create a separate Distributed table and local tables on each node.
2. When ingesting data to a cloud table, while the table is very small, data is distributed across several cluster servers, but as data grows, more servers are involved (for example, starting from gigabytes per server). The user can create a small table and it should not be too cumbersome; but when creating a table, we do not know in advance how much data will be loaded into it.
3. The user specifies a sharding key (arbitrary tuple). Data for the sharding key range (in lexicographical order) is located on some servers. Very small ranges are located on several servers and to access it is enough to read data from a single server, while sufficiently large ranges are spread across all servers. For example, if we are talking about web analytics the sharding key might start with CounterID, the website identifier. Data on a large site like <https://yandex.ru> should be spread across all servers in the cluster, while data on a small site should be located on only a few servers. Physical explanation: the cluster should scale to simultaneously provide throughput for heavy queries and to handle high QPS of light queries, and for light queries, the latency should not suffer. In general, this is called data locality.
4. The ability for heavy queries to use all the servers in the cluster, rather than 1 / N, where N is the replication coefficient. Thus, one server can contain multiple replicas of different shards.
5. When replacing the server with an empty one (node recovery), the data restore must be parallelized in some way. At least the reads should be spread over different servers to avoid overloading individual servers.
6. On each local server, reading the range of the primary key should be touching not a very large number of file ranges or not too small file ranges (minimizing disk seeks).
7. (Optional) The ability to use individual disks instead of RAID, but at the same time preserving throughput when reading medium\-sized primary key ranges and preserving QPS when reading small\-sized ranges.
8. The ability to create multiple tables with a common sharding scheme (co\-sharding).
9. Rebalancing data when adding new servers; creation of additional replicas with long unavailability of old servers.
10. SELECT queries should not require synchronous requests to the coordinator. No duplicates or missing data visible by SELECT queries during data rebalancing operations.
11. SELECT queries must choose large enough subset of servers considering conditions on sharding key and knowledge of the current sharding scheme.
12. The ability to efficiently distribute data across servers with uneven available disk space.
13. Atomicity of INSERT on a cluster.
