---
source: blog
url: https://yandex.ru>
topic: concept-cloud-mergetree-tables
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

large enough subset of servers considering conditions on sharding key and knowledge of the current sharding scheme. 12. The ability to efficiently distribute data across servers with uneven available disk space. 13. Atomicity of INSERT on a cluster.

Out of scope and will not be considered:

1. Erasure data encoding for replication and recovery.
2. Data storage on systems with different disks \- HDD and SSD. An example is storing fresh data on an SSD.

## General Considerations [\#](/blog/concept-cloud-merge-tree-tables#general-considerations)

A similar problem usually (in Map\-Reduce or blob\-storage systems) is solved by organizing data in chunks. Chunks are located on the nodes of the cluster. Mappings: table or file \-\> chunks, chunk \-\> nodes, are stored in the master, which itself can be replicated. The master observes the liveliness of nodes and maintains a reasonable replication level of all chunks.

Difficulties arise when there are too many chunks: in this case, the master does not cope with the storage of metadata and with the load. It becomes necessary to make complicated metadata sharding.

In our case, it may seem tempting to solve a problem in a similar way, where instead of a chunk, an instance of a MergeTree type table containing the data range is used. Chunks in other systems are called “tablets” or “regions”. But there are many problems with this. The number of chunks on one server cannot be large, because then the property is violated \- minimizing the number of seeks when reading data ranges. The problem also arises from the fact that each MergeTree table itself is rather cumbersome and consists of a large number of files. On the other hand, tables with a size of one terabyte are more or less normal if the data locality property is maintained. That is if several such tables on one server begin to be used only for not too small data ranges.
