---
source: blog
url: https://yandex.ru>
topic: concept-cloud-mergetree-tables
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

with a size of one terabyte are more or less normal if the data locality property is maintained. That is if several such tables on one server begin to be used only for not too small data ranges.

A variety of options can be used for sharding data, including:
Sharding according to some formula with a small number of parameters. Examples are simple hashing, consistent hashing (hash ring, rendezvous hashing, jump consistent hashing, sumbur). The practice of using in other systems shows that in its pure form this approach does not work well, because the sharding scheme is poorly controlled. Fits fine, for example, for caches. It can also be used as part of another algorithm.

The opposite option is that the data is divided into shards using an explicitly specified table. The table may contain key ranges (or, in another case, hash ranges from keys) and their corresponding servers. This gives a much greater degree of freedom in choosing when and how to transfer data. But at the same time, to scale the cluster, the size of the table has to be dynamically expanded, breaking the existing ranges.

One of the combined options is that the mapping is made up of two parts: first, the set of various keys is divided into some pre\-fixed not too few and not too many “virtual shards” (you can also call “logical shards”, “mini\-shards”). This number is several times larger than the hypothetical cluster size in the number of servers. Further, the second mapping explicitly specifies the location of each mini\-shard on the servers, and this second mapping can be controlled arbitrarily.

The complexity of this approach is that partitioning hash ranges gives uniformity, but does not give locality of data for range queries; whereas when splitting by key ranges, it is difficult to choose a uniform distribution in advance since we do not know what the distribution of data will be to the keys. That is, the approach with the choice of a pre\-fixed split into mini\-shards does not work if data locality is required.
