---
source: blog
url: https://yandex.ru>
topic: concept-cloud-mergetree-tables
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

in advance since we do not know what the distribution of data will be to the keys. That is, the approach with the choice of a pre\-fixed split into mini\-shards does not work if data locality is required.

It turns out that the only acceptable approach in our case is partitioning by key ranges, which can change dynamically (repartitioned). At the same time, for more convenience, manageability, and uniformity of data distribution, the number of partitioning elements can be slightly larger than the number of servers, and the mapping from the partitioning element into servers can be changed separately.

## Possible Implementation [\#](/blog/concept-cloud-merge-tree-tables#possible-implementation)

Each ClickHouse server can participate in a certain cloud. The cloud is identified by a text string. The membership of a node in the cloud can be ensured by creating a certain type of database on the node (IDatabase). Thus, one node can be registered in several clouds. Registry of the nodes registered in the cloud is maintained in the coordinator.

Cloud nodes are selected to accommodate the replicas of the shards of cloud tables. The node also sends some additional information to the coordinator for its selection when placing data: the path that determines the locality in the network (for example, data center and rack), the amount of disk space, etc.

The cloud table is created in the corresponding database registered in the cloud. The table is created on any server and is visible in all databases registered in the cloud.

Sharding key is set for cloud table on it“s creation, an arbitrary tuple. Sometimes it is practical that the sharding key matches the primary key (example \- (CounterID, Date, UserID)), sometimes it makes sense that it is different (for example, the DateTime primary key, sharding key \- UserID).

Sharding is a composition of several mappings:
