---
source: blog
url: https://yandex.ru>
topic: concept-cloud-mergetree-tables
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

that the sharding key matches the primary key (example \- (CounterID, Date, UserID)), sometimes it makes sense that it is different (for example, the DateTime primary key, sharding key \- UserID). Sharding is a composition of several mappings:

1. The set of all possible tuples, the values ​​of the sharding key, is mapped onto many half\-intervals that break the half\-interval \[0, 1\). Initially, this number is the size of the partition, it is equal to 1\. That is, all values ​​are mapped into a single semi\-interval, the whole set \[0, 1\). Then, as the amount of data in the table increases, the semi\-intervals, the split elements, can be divided approximately in half by the median of the distribution of values ​​in lexicographical order.
2. For each half\-interval splitting, several cloud servers are selected and remembered in some way, on which replicas of the corresponding data will be located. The choice is made based on the location of servers on the network (for example, at least two replicas in different data centers and all replicas in different racks), the number of replicas already created on this server (choose servers with the minimum) and the amount of free space (from various servers just select the server with the maximum amount of free space).

As a result, this composition forms a mapping from the sharding key into several replica servers.

It is assumed that in the course of work both parts of this mapping may change.

The result of mapping 1 can be called the “virtual shard” or “logical shard”. In the process of work, virtual shards can be divided in half. Going in the opposite direction is impossible \- the number of virtual shards can only grow. It is assumed that even for tables occupying the entire cluster, the number of virtual shards will be several times larger than the number of servers (for example, it may be greater by 10 times the replication ratio). Data ranges occupying at least a tenth of all data should be spread across all servers to ensure throughput of heavy queries. The mapping as a whole is specified by the set of boundary values ​​for the sharding key. This set is small (roughly kilobytes) and stored in the coordinator.
