---
source: blog
url: https://yandex.ru>
topic: concept-cloud-mergetree-tables
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

replicas can increase when servers are not available for a long time or increase and then decrease to move replicas between servers. ## How to Satisfy All Requirements [\#](/blog/concept-cloud-merge-tree-tables#how-to-satisfy-all-requirements) List items below correspond to the requirement numbers above:

1. IDatabase synchronously goes to the coordinator to get or change the list of tables. The list of cloud tables is stored in the coordinator in the node corresponding to the cloud. That is, all the tables in the cloud are visible on each server entering the cloud.
2. It is ensured by the fact that initially the partition consists of a single element, but begins to break up further with increasing data volume. Each replica responsible for the local storage of this data can initiate the splitting, once the criterion for the data volume has been reached. Multiple replicas may decide to do this competitively, and the decision is made using atomic CAS. To have fewer problems, it is possible to randomize somewhat the moment of deciding repartition. The criterion when it is necessary to additionally break virtual shards turns out to be non\-trivial. For example, you can break up to the number of servers \* the replication rate quite soon, by growing a shard to several gigabytes. But it is already worth breaking shards even when shards are 1 / N in size from the server size (for example, around a terabyte). In coordinator, you should store the last and previous splits immediately and do not do the splitting too often.
3. It is ensured by the fact that the number of virtual shards will be several times (user\-defined) more than the number of servers. Note: for additional data spreading, you can impose some spreading transformation on the sharding key. Not thought out. For example, instead of a key (CounterID, Date, UserID) use for sharding (hash (UserID)% 10, CounterID, Date, UserID). But in this case, even small CounterIDs will fall into 10 ranges.
4. Similarly.
5. If several virtual shards are located on a single server, their replicas will be spread over a larger number of servers, and during recovery, there will be more fanout.
6. Small requests will use one shard. While large requests will use several shards on the same server. But since each shard will be somewhat smaller, the data in the MergeTree table will probably be presented by a smaller set of parts. For example, we now have a maximum part size of 150 GiB, and for large tables, many such large chunks are formed in one partition. And if there are several tables, there will be a smaller number of large chunks in each. On the other hand, when inserting data, a larger number of small pieces will be generated on each server. And these small parts will cause an increase in the number of seeks. But not much, as the fresh data will be in the page cache. That is why too many virtual shards per server might not work well.
7. Pretty hard. You can have groups of neighboring shards on different disks of the same server. But then reading of medium size ranges will not be parallelized (since the whole range will be on one disk). In RAID, the problem is solved by the fact that the size of the chunk is relatively small (typically 1 megabyte). It would be possible to come up with a separate distribution of data in different pieces on different disks. But it is too difficult to design and implement carefully. Probably it“s better not to do the whole thing, and as a minimum, make it so that when on the JBOD server, one server disk is selected for the location of one shard.
8. It is possible to identify the sharding scheme with a string, which may be common to different tables. The criterion for splitting shards is determined based on the total amount of data for all tables with the same sharding scheme.
9. It is solved completely by changing the mapping of virtual shards on the servers. This mapping can be controlled independently of everything else.
10. Servers can cache the sharding map (both parts of it) for a while and update it usually asynchronously. When rebalancing data due to the splitting of virtual shards, you should keep the old data for a longer time. Similarly, when transferring replicas between servers. Upon request, the initiator server also asks if the remote server has the necessary data: data for the required shard according to the sharding scheme that is cached by the initiator server. For the query, one live replica of each shard is selected, on which there is data. If suddenly there were none, then it is worthwhile to update the sharding map synchronously, as for some reason all the replicas were transferred somewhere.
11. It is trivial.
12. It is solved on the basis that more than one shard accounts for one server and the fact that the distribution of shards replicas among servers is more or less arbitrary and can take into account the amount of disk space.
