---
source: blog
url: https://yandex.ru>
topic: concept-cloud-mergetree-tables
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

on the basis that more than one shard accounts for one server and the fact that the distribution of shards replicas among servers is more or less arbitrary and can take into account the amount of disk space.

## Issues [\#](/blog/concept-cloud-merge-tree-tables#issues)

To ingest data into a table, you can send an INSERT query to any server. The data will be divided into ranges and recorded on the desired servers. At the same time, it is synchronously ensured that we use a fresh sharding map \- it is requested before the data is inserted and it is checked that it is not out of date, simultaneously with the commit in ZK.

When a SELECT query is used, if the old sharding map was used, the latest data will not be visible. Therefore, the asynchronous update interval of the sharding map for SELECT should be made customizable, and an option should be added to synchronously use the latest sharding map.

For fairly large tables, it turns out that an INSERT request breaks the data into many small pieces and writes to all servers (example: with 500 servers, you need to commit 5000 replicas of shards). This should work since the probability of inaccessibility or inhibition of all replicas of one shard is still low. But it will work slowly and, possibly, unstable. With a lot of INSERTs, there will be a terrible load on the coordinator. Although it can withstand one INSERT per second normally. To achieve high throughput of INSERTs, it is sufficient to simply make them parallel, but with the same low frequency of INSERTs in general. However, this is still a big problem.

There are the following possible solutions:
