---
source: blog
url: https://yandex.ru>
topic: concept-cloud-mergetree-tables
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

normally. To achieve high throughput of INSERTs, it is sufficient to simply make them parallel, but with the same low frequency of INSERTs in general. However, this is still a big problem. There are the following possible solutions:

1. You can add something to the beginning of the sharding key. For example, Date % 10 or toMinute. Then INSERTs will touch fewer shards (in the typical case when recent data is inserted), but at the same time during some time intervals, some shards will be hotter than others. Normally, if it reduces the number of active shards, for example, from 5000 on INSERT to 500\. It is also very inconvenient for users.
2. You can come up with some kind of incomprehensible sharding scheme, where the fresh data first falls into some fresh shard where it is not clear where from where it is then lazily overwritten. A fresh shard is essentially a distributed queue. At the same time, a fresh shard with SELECT is always requested. Not so good. And still, it contradicts the atomicity of these transfers of data, visible at SELECT. Alternatively, you could relax the requirements if you allow SELECT not to see some of the fresh data.
It looks like it“s generally not working well at a cluster size of over 500 servers.
Another problem is that to properly spread the ranges of the primary key, the number of virtual shards must be no less than the number of servers squared. And this is too much.
How to Get Around These Issues
For sharding, you can add some more intermediate mappings. There are the following options:
3. Splitting each shard into a set of shards in an arbitrary way. For example, 10 pieces. This is equivalent to adding a random number 0\.N\-1 to the beginning of the sharding key, which means nothing. Then with INSERT, you can only insert into one randomly selected shard, or a minimum sized shard, or some kind of round\-robin; and as a result, INSERT becomes easier. But this increases the fanout of all point SELECTs. For convenience, such a partition can be done dynamically \- only large enough shards can be divided in such a way (this will help avoid excessive splitting of old shards in the case when the sharding key starts with Date and the data is inserted in the Date order) or do such a partition starting from the situation when the number of shards is large enough (restriction on top of fanout INSERT requests).
An additional advantage: in the case of servers with JBOD, it is possible to prefer to place such second\-level shards on the disks of one server, which half emulates RAID\-0\.
But there is a serious drawback: there is no possibility to do local IN / JOIN. For example, this possibility is assumed if the sharding key is hash (UserID), and we do JOIN by UserID. It would be possible to avoid this drawback by always placing all the “symmetric” shards on one server.
4. A mapping that spreads the data while keeping the number of virtual shards. The essence of this mapping is as follows:
	- The spreading factor is set, for example, `N = 10.` As the very first mapping, 10 times more ranges are generated. For example, if we want to end up with 7 shards, then we divide the data into 70 ranges.
	- Then these ranges are renumbered in a circle with numbers from 0\.6 and the ranges with the same number will fall into one shard, as a result, there will be 7 shards again.
	- The continuous analogue of this mapping: `x in [0, 1) -> fractional_part (x * N)`, multiplication by N on a circle.
