---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://altinity.com/blog/clickhouse-materialized-views-illuminated-part-1
topic: clickhouse-materialized-views-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

use subqueries / joins in MV? It is possible but it is **a very bad idea** for most of the use cases\*\*.\*\* So it will most probably work not as you expect and will hit insert performance significantly.

The MV will be attached (as AFTER INSERT TRIGGER) to the left\-most table in the MV SELECT statement, and it will ‘see’ only freshly inserted rows there. It will ‘see’ the whole set of rows of other tables, and the query will be executed EVERY TIME you do the insert to the left\-most table. That will impact the performance speed there significantly.
If you really need to update the MV with the left\-most table, not impacting the performance so much you can consider using dictionary / engine\=Join / engine\=Set for right\-hand table / subqueries (that way it will be always in memory, ready to use).

### Q. How are MVs executed sequentially or in parallel?

By default, the execution is sequential and alphabetical. It can be switched by [parallel\_view\_processing](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#parallel_view_processing)
.

Parallel processing could be helpful if you have a lot of spare CPU power (cores) and want to utilize it. Add the setting to the insert statement or to the user profile. New blocks created by MVs will also follow the squashing logic similar to the one used in the insert, but they will use the min\_insert\_block\_size\_rows\_for\_materialized\_views and min\_insert\_block\_size\_bytes\_for\_materialized\_views settings.

### Q. How to alter MV implicit storage (w/o TO syntax)

1. take the existing MV definition

```
SHOW CREATE TABLE dbname.mvname;

```
Adjust the query in the following manner:

	- replace ‘CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW’ to ‘ATTACH MATERIALIZED VIEW’
	- add needed columns;
2. Detach materialized view with the command:

```
DETACH TABLE dbname.mvname ON CLUSTER cluster_name;

```
3. Add the needed column to the underlying ReplicatedAggregatingMergeTree table

```
-- if the Materialized view was created without TO keyword
ALTER TABLE dbname.`.inner.mvname` ON CLUSTER cluster_name add column tokens AggregateFunction(uniq, UInt64);
-- othewise just alter the target table used in `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW ...`  `TO ...` clause

```
4. attach MV back using the query you create at p. 1\.
