---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/26d5db32ae5c9f54b8825e2eca1f077a3b17c84a/src/Storages/MergeTree/KeyCondition.cpp#L1312-L1347
topic: the-tests-are-passing-why-would-i-read-the-diff-again
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

the program, how exactly it maps to the domain, and so on. If there are flaws in this model, the code they write won't match the domain and won't solve the problem correctly. Wrong understanding directly causes bugs.

How can we make our software easier to understand? It is often said that to see if you really understand something, you have to try explaining it to somebody. For example, as a science student taking an exam, you might be expected to give an explanation to some well\-known observed effect, deriving it from the basic laws of this domain. In a similar way, if we are modeling some problem in software, we can start from domain knowledge and general programming knowledge, and build an argument as to why our model is applicable to the problem, why it is correct, has optimal performance and so on. This explanation takes the form of code comments, or, at a higher level, design documents.

If you have a habit of thoroughly commenting your code, you might have noticed that writing the comments is often much harder than writing the code itself. It also has an unpleasant side effect — at times, while writing a comment, it becomes increasingly clear to you that the code is incomprehensible and takes forever to explain, or maybe is downright wrong, and you have to rewrite it. This is exactly the major positive effect of writing the comments. It helps you find bugs and make the code more understandable, and you wouldn't have noticed these problems unless you tried to explain the code.

Understanding why your program works is inseparable from understanding why it fails, so it's no surprise that there is a similar process for the latter, called "rubber duck debugging". To debug a particularly nasty bug, you start explaining the program logic step by step to an imaginary partner or even to an inanimate object such as a yellow rubber duck. This process is often very effective, much in excess of what one would expect given the limited conversational abilities of rubber ducks. The underlying mechanism is probably the same as with comments — you start to understand your program better by just trying to explain it, and this lets you find bugs.
