---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/26d5db32ae5c9f54b8825e2eca1f077a3b17c84a/src/Storages/MergeTree/KeyCondition.cpp#L1312-L1347
topic: the-tests-are-passing-why-would-i-read-the-diff-again
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

given the limited conversational abilities of rubber ducks. The underlying mechanism is probably the same as with comments — you start to understand your program better by just trying to explain it, and this lets you find bugs.

When working in a team, you even have a luxury of explaining your code to another developer who works on the same project. It's probably more entertaining than talking to a duck. More importantly, they are going to maintain the code you wrote, so better make sure that *they* can understand it as well. A good formal occasion for explaining how your code works is the code review process. Let's see how you can get the most out of it, in terms of making your code understandable.

## Reviewing Others Code [\#](/blog/the-tests-are-passing-why-would-i-read-the-diff-again#reviewing-others-code)

Code review is often framed as a gatekeeping process, where each contribution is vetted by maintainers to ensure that it is in line with project direction, has acceptable quality, meets the coding guidelines and so on. This perspective might seem natural when dealing with external contributions, but makes less sense if you apply it to internal ones. After all, our fellow maintainers have perfect understanding of project goals and guidelines, probably they are more talented and experienced than us, and can be trusted to produce the best solution possible. How can an additional review be helpful?

A less\-obvious, but very important, part of reviewing the code is just seeing whether it can be understood by another person. It is helpful regardless of the administrative roles and programming proficiency of the parties. What should you do as a reviewer if ease of understanding is your main priority?

You probably don't need to be concerned with trivia such as code style. There are automated tools for that. You might find some bugs, but this is probably a side effect. Your main task is making sense of the code.
