---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/26d5db32ae5c9f54b8825e2eca1f077a3b17c84a/src/Storages/MergeTree/KeyCondition.cpp#L1312-L1347
topic: the-tests-are-passing-why-would-i-read-the-diff-again
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

basic domain and programming knowledge, and all non\-obvious parts are clearly explained. ### Preparing Your Code For Review [\#](/blog/the-tests-are-passing-why-would-i-read-the-diff-again#preparing-your-code-for-review) As an author, you can also do some things to make your code easier to understand for the reviewer.

First of all, if you are implementing a major feature, it probably needs a round of design review before you even start writing code. Skipping a design review and jumping right into the code review can be a major source of frustration, because it might turn out that even the problem you are solving was formulated incorrectly, and all your work has to be thrown away. Of course, this is not prevented completely by design review, either. Programming is an iterative, exploratory activity, and in complex cases you only begin to grasp the problem after implementing a first solution, which you then realize is incorrect and has to be thrown away.

When preparing your code for review, your major objective is to make your problem and its solution clear to the reviewer. A good tool for this is code comments. Any sizable piece of logic should have an introductory comment describing its general purpose and outlining the implementation. This description can reference similar features, explain the difference to them, explain how it interfaces with other subsystems. A good place to put this general description is a function that serves as a main entry point for the feature, or other form of its public interface, or the most significant class, or the file containing the implementation, and so on.

Drilling down to each block of code, you should be able to explain what it does, why it does that, why this way and not another. If there are several ways of doing the thing, why did you choose this one? Of course, for some code these things follow from the more general comments and don't have to be restated. The mechanics of data manipulation should be apparent from the code itself. If you find yourself explaining a particular feature of the language, it's probably best not to use it.
