---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/26d5db32ae5c9f54b8825e2eca1f077a3b17c84a/src/Storages/MergeTree/KeyCondition.cpp#L1312-L1347
topic: the-tests-are-passing-why-would-i-read-the-diff-again
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

general comments and don't have to be restated. The mechanics of data manipulation should be apparent from the code itself. If you find yourself explaining a particular feature of the language, it's probably best not to use it.

Pay special attention to making the data structures apparent in the code, and their meaning and invariants well commented. The choice of data structures ultimately determines which algorithms you can apply, and sets the limits of performance, which is another reason why we should care about it as ClickHouse developers.

When explaining the code, it is important to give your reader enough context, so that they can understand you without a deep investigation of the surrounding systems and obscure test cases. Give pointers to all the things that might be relevant to the task. If you know some corner cases which your code has to handle, describe them in enough detail so that they can be reproduced. If there is a relevant standard or a design document, reference it, or even quote it inline. If you're relying on some invariant in other system, mention it. It is good practice to add programmatic checks that mirror your comments, when it is easy to do so. Your comment about an invariant should be accompanied by an assertion, and an important scenario should be reproduced by a test case.

Don't worry about being too verbose. There is often not enough comments, but almost never too much of them.

## Common Concerns about Code Comments [\#](/blog/the-tests-are-passing-why-would-i-read-the-diff-again#common-concerns-about-code-comments)

It is common to hear objections to the idea of commenting the code, so let's discuss a couple of usual ones.

### Self\-documenting Code [\#](/blog/the-tests-are-passing-why-would-i-read-the-diff-again#self-documenting-code)
