---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/blob/26d5db32ae5c9f54b8825e2eca1f077a3b17c84a/src/Storages/MergeTree/KeyCondition.cpp#L1312-L1347
topic: the-tests-are-passing-why-would-i-read-the-diff-again
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 9
---

way to make sure that they are up to date with the rest of the comments and the code. The possibility of comments gradually getting incorrect is sometimes used as an argument against having any comments at all.

This problem is not exclusive to the comments — the code also can and does become obsolete. Simple cases such as dead code can be detected by static analysis or studying the test coverage of code. More complex cases can only be found by proofreading, such as maintaining an invariant that is not important anymore, or preparing some data that is not needed.

While an obsolete comment can lead to a mistake, the same applies, perhaps more strongly, to the lack of comments. When you need some higher\-level knowledge about the code, but it is not written down, you are forced to perform an entire investigation from first principles to understand what's going on, and this is error\-prone. Even an obsolete comment likely gives a better starting point than nothing. Moreover, in a code base that makes an active use of the comments, they tend to be mostly correct. This is because the developers rely on comments, read and write them, pay attention to them during code review. The comments are routinely changed along with changing the code, and the outdated comments are soon noticed and fixed. This does require some habit. A lone comment in a vast desert of impenetrable self\-documenting code is not going to fare well.

## Conclusion [\#](/blog/the-tests-are-passing-why-would-i-read-the-diff-again#conclusion)

Code review makes your software better, and a significant part of this probably comes from trying to understand what your software actually does. By paying attention specifically to this aspect of code review, you can make it even more efficient. You'll have less bugs, and your code will be easier to maintain — and what else could we ask for as software developers?

*2021\-04\-13 [Alexander Kuzmenkov](https://github.com/akuzm). Title photo by [Nikita Mikhaylov](https://github.com/nikitamikhaylov)*

*P.S. This text contains the personal opinions of the author, and is not an authoritative manual for ClickHouse maintainers.*

Share this postCopy URLShare on Y CombinatorShare on TwitterShare on BlueSkyShare on FacebookShare on LinkedIn### Subscribe to our newsletter

Stay informed on feature releases, product roadmap, support, and cloud offerings!Loading form...## Recent posts
