---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models
topic: modeling-machine-learning-data-in-olap-databases
ch_version_introduced: '7.886'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

modeled and managed in ClickHouse to perform these roles. ## High\-level steps [\#](/blog/modeling-machine-learning-data-in-clickhouse#high-level-steps) When using ClickHouse as the basis for your offline feature store, we think of the steps to train a model as consisting of the following:

1. **Exploration** \- Familiarize yourself with source data in ClickHouse with SQL queries.
2. **Identify the data subset and features** \- Identify the possible features, their respective entities, and the subset of data needed to produce them. We refer to the subset from this step as the "feature subset."
3. **Creating Features** \- Create the SQL queries required to generate the features.
4. **Generating model data** \- Combine the features appropriately to produce a set of feature vectors, usually achieved using an ASOF JOIN on a common key and timestamp proximity.
5. **Generating test and training sets** \- Split the "feature subset" into a test and training set (and possibly validation).
6. **Train model** \- Train model(s) using the training data, possibly with different algorithms.
7. **Model selection \& tuning** \- Evaluate models against the validation set, choose the best model, and fine\-tune hyperparameters.
8. **Model evaluation** \- Evaluate the final model against the test set. If performance is sufficient, stop; otherwise, return to 2\.

We concern ourselves with steps (1\) to (5\) as these are ClickHouse\-specific. One of the key properties of the above process is that it is highly iterative. Steps (3\) and (4\) could be loosely referred to as "Feature engineering" and something that typically consumes more time than choosing the model and refining the hyperparameters. Optimizing this process and ensuring ClickHouse is used as efficiently as possible can, therefore, deliver significant time and cost savings.

We explore each of these steps below and propose a flexible approach that optimally leverages ClickHouse features, allowing users to iterate efficiently.

## Dataset \& Example [\#](/blog/modeling-machine-learning-data-in-clickhouse#dataset--example)

For our example, we use the following web analytics dataset, described [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/getting-started/example-datasets/metrica). This dataset consists of 100m rows, with an event representing a request to a specific URL. The ability to train machine learning models on web analytics data in ClickHouse is a common use case we see amongst users[\[1]](https://clickhouse.com/blog/transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models)[\[2]](https://clickhouse.com/blog/adgreetz-processes-millions-of-daily-ad-impressions).

Due to its size, the following table has been truncated to columns we will use. See [here](https://pastila.nl/?00acf5da/2295705307eb4090c33cb5f0f5b8d472#kSJRFJM6RcULiQUo90npfA==) for the full schema.
