---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models
topic: modeling-machine-learning-data-in-olap-databases
ch_version_introduced: '7.886'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

a complex query must be issued to compute the feature from an aggregation or transformation. ### Identifying features [\#](/blog/modeling-machine-learning-data-in-clickhouse#identifying-features) Before identifying features, we should be aware of two of the key properties that will influence our modeling process:

- **Association with entities** \- Features are typically associated with an `entity` with which they are associated or "keyed". For our problem, the features we think might be useful in making a prediction might be a mixture of user or domain\-based. A user\-based feature would be request\-specific, e.g., the user's age, client IP, or user agent. A domain feature would be associated with the page visited e.g. `number of visits per year`.

Associating features with an instance of an entity requires the entity to have a key or identifier. In our case we need an identifier for the user and a domain value. These are available from the `UserID` and `URL` columns, respectively. The domain can be extracted from the URL using the domain function in ClickHouse, i.e., `domain(URL)`.
- **Dynamic \& complex** \- While certain features remain relatively static, e.g., the user's age, others, such as the client IP, will exhibit changes over time. In such cases, we need to access the feature’s value as it existed at a specific timestamp. This is key for creating point\-in\-time correct training sets.

While some features will likely be simple, e.g., whether the device is mobile or the client IP, other more complicated features require aggregate statistics, which change over time \- and this is where ClickHouse excels!

### Example features [\#](/blog/modeling-machine-learning-data-in-clickhouse#example-features)

For example, suppose we consider the following features to be useful in predicting whether a website visit will bounce. All of our features are associated with a timestamp as they are dynamic and change over time.
