---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models
topic: modeling-machine-learning-data-in-olap-databases
ch_version_introduced: '7.886'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

features [\#](/blog/modeling-machine-learning-data-in-clickhouse#example-features) For example, suppose we consider the following features to be useful in predicting whether a website visit will bounce. All of our features are associated with a timestamp as they are dynamic and change over time.

- **User\-agent of the visit** \- Associated with the user entity and available in the column `UserAgent`.
- **Category of the referrer** \- (e.g., search engine, social media, direct). A user feature available through the column `RefererCategoryID`.
- **Number of domains visited per hour** \- at the time the user made the request. Requires a `GROUP BY` to compute this user feature.
- **Number of unique IPs visiting the domain per hour** \- Domain feature requiring a `GROUP BY`.
- **Category of the page** \- User feature available through the column `URLCategoryID`.
- **Average request time for the domain per hour** \- Requires a `GROUP BY` to compute this from the `FetchTiming` column.

> These features might not be ideal and illustrative only. Linking many of these features to the user entity is somewhat simplistic. For instance, some features would be more accurately associated with the request or session entity.

### Feature subsets [\#](/blog/modeling-machine-learning-data-in-clickhouse#feature-subsets)

Once we have an idea of the features we will use, we can identify the required subset of the data needed to build them. This step is optional as sometimes users wish to use the whole data, or the data isn't large and complex enough to warrant this step.

When applied, we often see users creating tables for their model data \- we refer to these as the "feature subset". These consist of:

- The entity values for each feature vector.
- A timestamp of the event if it exists.
- Class label.
- The columns needed to produce the planned features. Users may wish to add other columns that they consider useful in future iterations.

This approach provides several advantages:
