---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models
topic: modeling-machine-learning-data-in-olap-databases
ch_version_introduced: '7.886'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

timestamp of the event if it exists. - Class label. - The columns needed to produce the planned features. Users may wish to add other columns that they consider useful in future iterations. This approach provides several advantages:

- Allows the data to be ordered and optimized for future accesses. Typically, the model data will be read and filtered differently than the source data. These tables can also generate features faster than the source data when producing a final training set.
- A subset or transformed set of data may be required for the model. Identifying, filtering, and transforming this subset may be an expensive query. By inserting the data into an intermediate model table, this query only has to be executed once. Subsequent feature generation and model training runs can thus obtain the data efficiently from this table.

We can use this step to de\-duplicate any data. While the raw data might not contain duplicates, the resulting subset may if we extract a subset of the columns for features.

Suppose for our model we create an intermediate table `predict_bounce_subset`. This table needs the `EventTime`, the label `IsNotBounce`, and the entity keys `Domain` and `UserID`. Additionally, we include the simple feature columns `UserAgent`, `RefererCategoryID` , and `URLCategoryID`, as well as those needed to produce our aggregate features \- `FetchTiming` and `ClientIP`.

```
CREATE TABLE predict_bounce_subset
(
  EventTime DateTime64,
  UserID UInt64,
  Domain String,
  UserAgent UInt8,
  RefererCategoryID UInt16,
  URLCategoryID UInt16,
  FetchTiming UInt32,
  ClientIP UInt32,
  IsNotBounce UInt8
)
ENGINE = ReplacingMergeTree
ORDER BY (EventTime, Domain, UserID, UserAgent, RefererCategoryID, URLCategoryID, FetchTiming, ClientIP, IsNotBounce)
PRIMARY KEY (EventTime, Domain, UserID)

```

We use a [ReplacingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/replacingmergetree) as our table engine. This engine de\-duplicates rows that have the same values in the ordering key columns. This is performed asynchronously in the background at merge tree, although we can ensure we don't receive duplicates at query time using the [`FINAL` modifier](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/select/from#final-modifier). This approach to deduplication tends to be more resource efficient than the alternative in this scenario \- using a `GROUP BY` of the columns we wish to de\-duplicate data by at insert time below. Above, we assume all columns should be used to identify unique rows. It is possible to have events with the same `EventTime`, `UserID`, `Domain`, e.g. multiple requests made when visiting a domain with different `FetchTiming` values.
