---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models
topic: modeling-machine-learning-data-in-olap-databases
ch_version_introduced: '7.886'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 10
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

of any number of combinations of different features during different training iterations. Additionally, ideally different engineers and data scientists would be using the same definition of a feature as well as writing the queries as optimally as possible.

Given the above demands, it makes sense to materialize our features into tables writing the results of the query into a table using `INSERT INTO SELECT`. This effectively means we perform the feature generation once, writing the results to a table from which they can be efficiently read and reused when iterating. This also allows us to declare the feature query once, optimally, and share the results with other engineers and scientists.

> For now, we omit how users might wish to declare, version control, and share their feature definitions. SQL is, after all, code. There are several solutions to this problem, some of which solve different challenges \- see "Build or Adopt".

### Feature tables [\#](/blog/modeling-machine-learning-data-in-clickhouse#feature-tables)

A feature table contains instances of a feature associated with an entity and, optionally, a timestamp. We have seen our users employ two table models for features \- either creating a table **per feature** or **per entity**. Each approach has its respective pros and cons we explore below. Both of these allow re\-usability of the features though, with the advantage they ensure the data is compressed well.

> You don't need to create a feature table for every feature. Some can be consumed from the model table as\-is, in cases where they are represented by a column value.

### Feature tables (per feature) [\#](/blog/modeling-machine-learning-data-in-clickhouse#feature-tables-per-feature)

With a table per feature, the table name denotes the feature itself. The primary advantage of this approach is it potentially simplifies later joins. Additionally, it means users can use materialized views to maintain these tables as the source data changes \- see "Updating".

The disadvantage of this approach is it doesn't scale as well as the "per event". Users with thousands of features will have thousands of tables. While possibly manageable, creating materialized views to maintain each of these is not viable.

As an example, consider the table responsible for storing the domain feature "number of unique IPs for each domain".

```
CREATE TABLE number_unique_ips_per_hour
(
  Domain String,
  EventTime DateTime64,
  Value Int64
)
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY (Domain, EventTime)

```
