---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models
topic: modeling-machine-learning-data-in-olap-databases
ch_version_introduced: '7.886'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

not supported by this approach. Note we are forced to use the new `Variant` type in the below example for the domain features. While this table supports `UInt64`, `Int64`, and `Float64` feature values, it could potentially support more.

```
-- domain Features
SET allow_experimental_variant_type=1
CREATE TABLE domain_features
(
  Domain String,
  FeatureId String,
  EventTime DateTime,
  Value Variant(UInt64, Int64, Float64)
)
ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY (FeatureId, Domain, EventTime)

```

This table's `ORDER BY` is optimized for filtering by a specific `FeatureId` and `Domain` \- the typical access pattern we will see later.

To populate our "number of unique IPs for each domain" feature into this table, we need a similar query to that used earlier:

```
INSERT INTO domain_features SELECT
   Domain,
   'number_unique_ips_per_hour' AS FeatureId,
   toStartOfHour(EventTime) AS EventTime,
   uniqExact(ClientIP) AS Value
FROM predict_bounce_subset FINAL
GROUP BY
   Domain,
   EventTime

0 rows in set. Elapsed: 0.573 sec. Processed 43.80 million rows, 1.49 GB (76.40 million rows/s., 2.60 GB/s.)

SELECT count()
FROM domain_features

┌─count()─┐
│  613382 │
└─────────┘

```

> Users new to ClickHouse may wonder if the "per feature" approach allows faster retrieval of features than the "per entity" approach. Due to the use of ordering keys and ClickHouse sparse indices, there should be no difference here.

### Updating feature tables [\#](/blog/modeling-machine-learning-data-in-clickhouse#updating-feature-tables)

While some features are static, we often want to ensure they are updated as the source data or subsets change. As described for "Updating subsets", we can achieve this with Materialized views.

In the case of feature tables, our materialized views are typically more complex as the results are often the results of aggregation and not just simple transformations and filtering. As a result, the query executed by the materialized view will produce partial aggregation states. These partial aggregation states represent the intermediate state of the aggregation, which the target feature table can merge together. This requires our feature table to use the [AggregatingMergeTree](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/aggregatingmergetree) with appropriate `AggregateFunction` types.

We provide an example below for a "per feature" table `number_unique_ips_per_hour.`
