---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/transforming-ad-tech-how-cognitiv-uses-clickhouse-to-build-better-machine-learning-models
topic: modeling-machine-learning-data-in-olap-databases
ch_version_introduced: '7.886'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 15
total_chunks_in_doc: 20
---

entity keys, it makes sense for this to form the base table of the join (left\-hand side). This is also likely to be the largest table, making it a sensible [choice for the left\-hand side of the join](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/joining-tables#optimizing-join-performance).

Features will be joined to this table based on two criteria:

- the closest timestamp (`EventTime`) for each feature to the row in the feature subset table (`predict_bounce_subset`).
- the corresponding entity column for the feature table, e.g., `UserID` or `Domain.`

**To join based on this equi join AND the closest time requires an `ASOF JOIN`.**

We will send the results of this join to a table, using an `INSERT INTO`, which we refer to as the "model table". This will be used to produce future training, validation and test sets.

Before exploring the join, we declare our "model table" `predict_bounce`.

```
CREATE TABLE predict_bounce_model (
   Row UInt64,
   EventTime DateTime64,
   UserID UInt64,
   Domain String,
   UserAgent UInt8,
   RefererCategoryID UInt16,
   URLCategoryID UInt16,
   DomainsVisitedPerHour UInt32 COMMENT 'Number of domains visited in last hour by the user',
   UniqueIPsPerHour UInt32 COMMENT 'Number of unique ips visiting the domain per hour',
   AverageRequestTime Float32 COMMENT 'Average request time for the domain per hour',
   IsNotBounce UInt8,
) ENGINE = MergeTree
ORDER BY (Row, EventTime)

```

The `Row` column here will contain a unique entry for each row in the dataset. We make this part of our `ORDER BY` and exploit it later to produce training and test sets efficiently.

### Joining and aligning features [\#](/blog/modeling-machine-learning-data-in-clickhouse#joining-and-aligning-features)

To join and align features based on the entity key and timestamp, we can use the ASOF. How we construct our JOIN depends on several factors whether we are using "per feature" or "per entity" feature tables.

Let's assume we are using "per feature" tables and have the following available:

- `number_unique_ips_per_hour` \- containing the number of unique ips visiting **each domain** per hour. Example above.
- `domains_visited_per_hour` \- Number of domains visited in last hour by **each user**. Generated using the queries [here](https://pastila.nl/?02af4d88/82927122387952892b23b7e8e90738bd#tsngZtbhHCxFhr5mVuB07w==).
- `average_request_time` \- Average request time for **each domain** per hour. Generated using the queries [here](https://pastila.nl/?07708678/211b6c5f5d81b9818496b91efaaa78f7#SX1/LZuj+7fsAYPSsvu4qQ==).

Our JOIN here is quite straightforward:
