---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/view.md)#
topic: create-view-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

transformed by the corresponding [SELECT](/docs/sql-reference/statements/select) query. When creating a materialized view without `TO [db].[table]`, you must specify `ENGINE` – the table engine for storing data. When creating a materialized view with `TO [db].[table]`, you can't also use `POPULATE`.

A materialized view is implemented as follows: when inserting data to the table specified in `SELECT`, part of the inserted data is converted by this `SELECT` query, and the result is inserted in the view.

NoteMaterialized views in ClickHouse use **column names** instead of column order during insertion into destination table. If some column names are not present in the `SELECT` query result, ClickHouse uses a default value, even if the column is not [Nullable](/docs/sql-reference/data-types/nullable). A safe practice would be to add aliases for every column when using Materialized views.Materialized views in ClickHouse are implemented more like insert triggers. If there's some aggregation in the view query, it's applied only to the batch of freshly inserted data. Any changes to existing data of source table (like update, delete, drop partition, etc.) does not change the materialized view.Materialized views in ClickHouse do not have deterministic behaviour in case of errors. This means that blocks that had been already written will be preserved in the destination table, but all blocks after error will not.By default if pushing to one of views fails, then the INSERT query will fail too, and some blocks may not be written to the destination table. This can be changed using `materialized_views_ignore_errors` setting (you should set it for `INSERT` query), if you will set `materialized_views_ignore_errors=true`, then any errors while pushing to views will be ignored and all blocks will be written to the destination table.Also note, that `materialized_views_ignore_errors` set to `true` by default for `system.*_log` tables.

If you specify `POPULATE`, the existing table data is inserted into the view when creating it, as if making a `CREATE TABLE ... AS SELECT ...` . Otherwise, the query contains only the data inserted in the table after creating the view. We **do not recommend** using `POPULATE`, since data inserted in the table during the view creation will not be inserted in it.

NoteGiven that `POPULATE` works like `CREATE TABLE ... AS SELECT ...` it has limitations:- It is not supported with Replicated database
- It is not supported in ClickHouse cloud
