---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/view.md)#
topic: create-view-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

the view creation will not be inserted in it. NoteGiven that `POPULATE` works like `CREATE TABLE ... AS SELECT ...` it has limitations:- It is not supported with Replicated database - It is not supported in ClickHouse cloud

Instead a separate `INSERT ... SELECT` can be used.

A `SELECT` query can contain `DISTINCT`, `GROUP BY`, `ORDER BY`, `LIMIT`. Note that the corresponding conversions are performed independently on each block of inserted data. For example, if `GROUP BY` is set, data is aggregated during insertion, but only within a single packet of inserted data. The data won't be further aggregated. The exception is when using an `ENGINE` that independently performs data aggregation, such as `SummingMergeTree`.

If the materialized view uses the construction `TO [db.]name`, you can `DETACH` the view, run `ALTER` for the target table, and then `ATTACH` the previously detached (`DETACH`) view.

Note that materialized view is influenced by [optimize\_on\_insert](/docs/operations/settings/settings#optimize_on_insert) setting. The data is merged before the insertion into a view.

Views look the same as normal tables. For example, they are listed in the result of the `SHOW TABLES` query.

To delete a view, use [DROP VIEW](/docs/sql-reference/statements/drop#drop-view). Although `DROP TABLE` works for VIEWs as well.

## SQL security[​](#sql_security "Direct link to SQL security")

`DEFINER` and `SQL SECURITY` allow you to specify which ClickHouse user to use when executing the view's underlying query.
`SQL SECURITY` has three legal values: `DEFINER`, `INVOKER`, or `NONE`. You can specify any existing user or `CURRENT_USER` in the `DEFINER` clause.

The following table will explain which rights are required for which user in order to select from view.
Note that regardless of the SQL security option, in every case it is still required to have `GRANT SELECT ON <view>` in order to read from it.
