---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/view.md)#
topic: create-view-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

when the window is ready to fire. It stores the partial aggregation results in an inner(or specified) table to reduce latency and can push the processing result to a specified table or push notifications using the WATCH query.

Creating a window view is similar to creating `MATERIALIZED VIEW`. Window view needs an inner storage engine to store intermediate data. The inner storage can be specified by using `INNER ENGINE` clause, the window view will use `AggregatingMergeTree` as the default inner engine.

When creating a window view without `TO [db].[table]`, you must specify `ENGINE` – the table engine for storing data.

### Time Window Functions[​](#time-window-functions "Direct link to Time Window Functions")

[Time window functions](/docs/sql-reference/functions/time-window-functions) are used to get the lower and upper window bound of records. The window view needs to be used with a time window function.

### TIME ATTRIBUTES[​](#time-attributes "Direct link to TIME ATTRIBUTES")

Window view supports **processing time** and **event time** process.

**Processing time** allows window view to produce results based on the local machine's time and is used by default. It is the most straightforward notion of time but does not provide determinism. The processing time attribute can be defined by setting the `time_attr` of the time window function to a table column or using the function `now()`. The following query creates a window view with processing time.

```
CREATE WINDOW VIEW wv AS SELECT count(number), tumbleStart(w_id) as w_start from date GROUP BY tumble(now(), INTERVAL '5' SECOND) as w_id

```

**Event time** is the time that each individual event occurred on its producing device. This time is typically embedded within the records when it is generated. Event time processing allows for consistent results even in case of out\-of\-order events or late events. Window view supports event time processing by using `WATERMARK` syntax.

Window view provides three watermark strategies:

- `STRICTLY_ASCENDING`: Emits a watermark of the maximum observed timestamp so far. Rows that have a timestamp smaller to the max timestamp are not late.
- `ASCENDING`: Emits a watermark of the maximum observed timestamp so far minus 1\. Rows that have a timestamp equal and smaller to the max timestamp are not late.
- `BOUNDED`: WATERMARK\=INTERVAL. Emits watermarks, which are the maximum observed timestamp minus the specified delay.

The following queries are examples of creating a window view with `WATERMARK`:
