---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/view.md)#
topic: create-view-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 13
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

timestamp equal and smaller to the max timestamp are not late. - `BOUNDED`: WATERMARK\=INTERVAL. Emits watermarks, which are the maximum observed timestamp minus the specified delay. The following queries are examples of creating a window view with `WATERMARK`:

```
CREATE WINDOW VIEW wv WATERMARK=STRICTLY_ASCENDING AS SELECT count(number) FROM date GROUP BY tumble(timestamp, INTERVAL '5' SECOND);
CREATE WINDOW VIEW wv WATERMARK=ASCENDING AS SELECT count(number) FROM date GROUP BY tumble(timestamp, INTERVAL '5' SECOND);
CREATE WINDOW VIEW wv WATERMARK=INTERVAL '3' SECOND AS SELECT count(number) FROM date GROUP BY tumble(timestamp, INTERVAL '5' SECOND);

```

By default, the window will be fired when the watermark comes, and elements that arrived behind the watermark will be dropped. Window view supports late event processing by setting `ALLOWED_LATENESS=INTERVAL`. An example of lateness handling is:

```
CREATE WINDOW VIEW test.wv TO test.dst WATERMARK=ASCENDING ALLOWED_LATENESS=INTERVAL '2' SECOND AS SELECT count(a) AS count, tumbleEnd(wid) AS w_end FROM test.mt GROUP BY tumble(timestamp, INTERVAL '5' SECOND) AS wid;

```

Note that elements emitted by a late firing should be treated as updated results of a previous computation. Instead of firing at the end of windows, the window view will fire immediately when the late event arrives. Thus, it will result in multiple outputs for the same window. Users need to take these duplicated results into account or deduplicate them.

You can modify `SELECT` query that was specified in the window view by using `ALTER TABLE ... MODIFY QUERY` statement. The data structure resulting in a new `SELECT` query should be the same as the original `SELECT` query when with or without `TO [db.]name` clause. Note that the data in the current window will be lost because the intermediate state cannot be reused.

### Monitoring New Windows[​](#monitoring-new-windows "Direct link to Monitoring New Windows")

Window view supports the [WATCH](/docs/sql-reference/statements/watch) query to monitoring changes, or use `TO` syntax to output the results to a table.

```
WATCH [db.]window_view
[EVENTS]
[LIMIT n]
[FORMAT format]

```

A `LIMIT` can be specified to set the number of updates to receive before terminating the query. The `EVENTS` clause can be used to obtain a short form of the `WATCH` query where instead of the query result you will just get the latest query watermark.

### Settings[​](#settings-1 "Direct link to Settings")
