---
source: docs.clickhouse.com
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/tree/master/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/create/view.md)#
topic: create-view-clickhouse-docs
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 14
total_chunks_in_doc: 16
---

terminating the query. The `EVENTS` clause can be used to obtain a short form of the `WATCH` query where instead of the query result you will just get the latest query watermark. ### Settings[​](#settings-1 "Direct link to Settings")

- `window_view_clean_interval`: The clean interval of window view in seconds to free outdated data. The system will retain the windows that have not been fully triggered according to the system time or `WATERMARK` configuration, and the other data will be deleted.
- `window_view_heartbeat_interval`: The heartbeat interval in seconds to indicate the watch query is alive.
- `wait_for_window_view_fire_signal_timeout`: Timeout for waiting for window view fire signal in event time processing.

### Example[​](#example "Direct link to Example")

Suppose we need to count the number of click logs per 10 seconds in a log table called `data`, and its table structure is:

```
CREATE TABLE data ( `id` UInt64, `timestamp` DateTime) ENGINE = Memory;

```

First, we create a window view with tumble window of 10 seconds interval:

```
CREATE WINDOW VIEW wv as select count(id), tumbleStart(w_id) as window_start from data group by tumble(timestamp, INTERVAL '10' SECOND) as w_id

```

Then, we use the `WATCH` query to get the results.

```
WATCH wv

```

When logs are inserted into table `data`,

```
INSERT INTO data VALUES(1,now())

```

The `WATCH` query should print the results as follows:

```
┌─count(id)─┬────────window_start─┐
│         1 │ 2020-01-14 16:56:40 │
└───────────┴─────────────────────┘

```

Alternatively, we can attach the output to another table using `TO` syntax.

```
CREATE WINDOW VIEW wv TO dst AS SELECT count(id), tumbleStart(w_id) as window_start FROM data GROUP BY tumble(timestamp, INTERVAL '10' SECOND) as w_id

```

Additional examples can be found among stateful tests of ClickHouse (they are named `*window_view*` there).

### Window View Usage[​](#window-view-usage "Direct link to Window View Usage")

The window view is useful in the following scenarios:

- **Monitoring**: Aggregate and calculate the metrics logs by time, and output the results to a target table. The dashboard can use the target table as a source table.
- **Analyzing**: Automatically aggregate and preprocess data in the time window. This can be useful when analyzing a large number of logs. The preprocessing eliminates repeated calculations in multiple queries and reduces query latency.

## Related Content[​](#related-content "Direct link to Related Content")
