---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/docs
topic: support-services-built-like-our-product-blazingly-fast-simple-and-developer-friendly
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

there with you when you first start your Trial, to when you go into Production, to your future growth and innovation needs, to then recursively starting again with a new use case. ### Open and Accessible Knowledge [\#](/blog/clickhouse-support-services-fast-simple-friendly#open-and-accessible-knowledge)

The second major challenge we looked to address was to get away from the legacy approach of putting our knowledge tools behind paywalls. Instead, here at ClickHouse \- whether you are just starting a trial or have been working with ClickHouse Cloud for years \- you have access to all of our knowledge. Whether via support cases, our Cloud Chat UI, our free on\-demand and live training, docs, community channels, and even consultative assistance \- the ClickHouse S2 team is there to help. The single goal for all our teams here at ClickHouse is that our users can begin using our products easily, quickly, largely self\-service, and yet with an accessible and friendly support organization there to help when you get stuck.

We offer Support to all users of our Cloud platform, whether you're doing a 30\-day free trial or running in production in ClickHouse Cloud, under the core tenet that our Cloud software should be simple to use and get started. Through the ClickHouse Academy, we provide our training for free for all of our users and customers, with only a ClickHouse Cloud account required to login and enroll in our courses (no obligation to create a service). You'll often meet some of our S2 team members virtually if you join any of our live virtual training events \- we enjoy answering your questions! (even the hard ones…sometimes mostly the hard ones). We engage with you in the community because we want you to be successful using our open\-source software, and are excited to be part of a community that enjoys helping one another and sharing great ideas.

## Advocate for users [\#](/blog/clickhouse-support-services-fast-simple-friendly#advocate-for-users)
