---
source: blog
url: https://grafana.com/blog/2022/05/05/introducing-the-official-clickhouse-plugin-for-grafana/
topic: clickhouse-plugin-for-grafana-2-0-release
ch_version_introduced: '2.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

trying this feature, recall that HTTP uses a different port than Native \- 8123/8443 for HTTP/HTTPS by default. Finally, we have separated the connection and query timeouts which previously used the same value. ## Welcome semi\-structured data [\#](/blog/clickhouse-grafana-plugin-2.0#welcome-semi-structured-data)

ClickHouse 22\.6 added [support for JSON](https://clickhouse.com/blog/getting-data-into-clickhouse-part-2-json) as a data type. The JSON Object type is advantageous when dealing with complex nested structures, which are subject to change. The type automatically infers the columns from the structure during insertion and merges these into the existing table schema. Columns will be created as required, allowing the user to handle semi\-structured data without maintaining a schema. This capability has many uses, not least simplifying the use of ClickHouse as a log storage engine.

Shortly after its addition to ClickHouse, support for JSON was added to the clickhouse\-go client. This support has now been implemented in our Grafana plugin in v2\.0\.

JSON leaf nodes can now be used like any other column of the equivalent primitive type for charting. Columns that represent a JSON object or list of JSON objects are handled like the Tuple and Nested types in ClickHouse, respectively. In Grafana, this means rendering them as JSON strings. While this is not compatible with Grafana charting, JSON objects can be displayed in the [Explore view](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/explore/logs-integration/#logs-visualization) or [Logs Panel](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/visualizations/logs-panel/) \- a useful addition for those storing structured logs in ClickHouse.

For testing this feature, users can use a subset of the logs dataset described [here](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/guides/developer/working-with-json/json-other-approaches). Here we use a simple schema:

```
  
```
1SET allow_experimental_object_type=1;
2
3CREATE TABLE http_logs
4(
5    `message` JSON,
6    `timestamp` DateTime
7)
8ENGINE = MergeTree()
9ORDER BY timestamp;
10
11INSERT INTO http_logs (timestamp, message) SELECT
12    `@timestamp` AS timestamp,
13    concat('{"status":', toString(status), ', "size":', toString(size), ', "clientip": "', toString(clientip), '", "request": ', toJSONString(request), '}') AS message
14FROM s3('https://datasets-documentation.s3.eu-west-3.amazonaws.com/http/documents-01.ndjson.gz', 'JSONEachRow')
```


```

We insert the data above from a publically available s3 bucket \- feel free to experiment or alternatively use [sql.clickhouse.com](https://sql.clickhouse.com)! Note we ensure we have a time column `timestamp` separate from the JSON. Each row looks like the following due to moving all columns under the message field.

```
{"message":{"clientip":"40.135.0.0","request":{"method":"GET","path":"\/images\/hm_bg.jpg","version":"HTTP\/1.0"},"size":24736,"status":200},"timestamp":"1998-04-30 19:30:17"}

```
