---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/42d67fb605796a4752b07a5f9a50280beb1fdb64
topic: notes-on-various-errors-with-respect-to-replication-and-distributed-connections-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 1
---

# Notes on Various Errors with respect to replication and distributed connections \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. [Useful queries](/altinity-kb-useful-queries/)
2. Notes on Various Errors with respect to replication and distributed connections
# Notes on Various Errors with respect to replication and distributed connections

Notes on errors related to replication and distributed connections## `ClickHouseDistributedConnectionExceptions`

This alert usually indicates that one of the nodes isn’t responding or that there’s an interconnectivity issue. Debug steps:

## 1\. Check Cluster Connectivity

Verify connectivity inside the cluster by running:

```
SELECT count() FROM clusterAllReplicas('{cluster}', cluster('{cluster}', system.one))

```
## 2\. Check for Errors

Run the following queries to see if any nodes report errors:

```
SELECT hostName(), * FROM clusterAllReplicas('{cluster}', system.clusters) WHERE errors_count > 0;
SELECT hostName(), * FROM clusterAllReplicas('{cluster}', system.errors) WHERE last_error_time > now() - 3600 ORDER BY value;

```
Depending on the results, ensure that the affected node is up and responding to queries. Also, verify that connectivity (DNS, routes, delays) is functioning correctly.

### `ClickHouseReplicatedPartChecksFailed` \& `ClickHouseReplicatedPartFailedFetches`

Unless you’re seeing huge numbers, these alerts can generally be ignored. They’re often a sign of temporary replication issues that ClickHouse resolves on its own. However, if the issue persists or increases rapidly, follow the steps to debug replication issues:

- Check the replication status using tables such as system.replicas and system.replication\_queue.
- Examine server logs, system.errors, and system load for any clues.
- Try to restart the replica (`SYSTEM RESTART REPLICA db_name.table_name` command) and, if necessary, contact Altinity support.

Last modified 2025\.05\.12: [Update connection\-issues\-distributed\-parts.md (42d67fb)](https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/42d67fb605796a4752b07a5f9a50280beb1fdb64)
