---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: prefect-event-driven-workflow-orchestration-powered-by-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '8.27'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

address these needs in a turnkey, enterprise\-grade and secure way: *“With Prefect Cloud, we’re taking observability up a notch to enable people to observe and react to the health of any code that drives their business,”* says Bedell.

Rather than observing why one particular run (an instance of workflow execution) failed or had a problem, Prefect Cloud is moving towards a much higher\-level abstraction meant for team leaders. Bedell wants to deliver observability that can answer more complex questions with additional scope encompassing business impact: *“For example, we want to enable our customers to answer, ‘where are the biggest cost centers in terms of moving data?’, or maybe ‘are these expensive machine learning pipelines optimized?’ It’s a much broader code base than just batch data pipelines and that's where the conversation around ClickHouse started.”*

On a consistent basis, Prefect Cloud runs over a million “flow runs” per day – a “flow” is the most fundamental concept in Prefect representing a container for workflow logic as\-code. Bedell explains: *“Each of those flow runs could range from a few to hundreds of tasks. Then within each of those, breaking it up from the largest object to smallest object, each creates events, and those events could be state events, they could be artifacts created – it’s not one task, one object.”* Having a multi\-tenant architecture means that events from different customers are within the same database, all sliced out into partitions. Events are also customers’ log messages. So, when customers log data during the course of their flows those log messages are also events, as Staff Software Engineer, at Prefect, Chris Guidry explains: *“Our logs feature on Prefect Cloud is also backed by the same event stream, so volume is tied to a fundamental metric we watch – how many flow runs per day are people running. Any given flow might spawn 200\+ events. In February, Prefect had between 150 to 200 million events per day and the ambition is much greater.”*

## Original data stack \- Google BigQuery and PostgreSQL [\#](/blog/prefect-event-driven-workflow-orchestration-powered-by-clickhouse#original-data-stack---google-bigquery-and-postgresql)
