---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: prefect-event-driven-workflow-orchestration-powered-by-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '8.27'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

now part of a portfolio of databases for Prefect, but added Guidry: “It’s a very important one because it's going to enable the observability features we’re already thinking about to evolve and deliver more value from Prefect Cloud.”*

Prefect Cloud launched Metrics as one of the first ways to leverage ClickHouse for more advanced aggregations, a real step towards their observability vision: *“Failure is likely a symptom of a bigger problem that needs fixing. Does it happen every single day, at a specific time? We want our users to be able to fix errors at a larger scale,”* explains Bedell. While the team started small, with just a few cards that deliver metrics derived from looking over the past week of flow runs, Guidry points out: *“What we’ve done would not have been possible without ClickHouse, that’s quite an impact!”*

Following Metrics, came Automations, Guidry explains it’s one of the earliest features put in place, where the big goal isn’t capturing information, but crucially enabling users to act on it and offering Prefect Cloud users a powerful feature set designed to create responsive systems within their workspace. The system can now respond to specific events by triggering subsequent actions, so users can better mitigate risks and maintain operational efficiency. For instance, should an uptick in late flow occurrences exceed a certain threshold, an automated alert to Slack can signal potential issues requiring attention. Explaining other scenarios Guidry says: *“Users can execute automated actions, such as database reboots, to promptly address potential database issues. If the failure rate surpasses a predetermined threshold, within a specific timeframe, the system can automatically generate new incidents with detailed information for swift resolution.”*

## Additional benefits \- Simpler, more resilient data stack and cost savings [\#](/blog/prefect-event-driven-workflow-orchestration-powered-by-clickhouse#additional-benefits---simpler-more-resilient-data-stack-and-cost-savings)

In addition to enabling Prefect to realize their vision of building a real\-time data\-driven application on top of ClickHouse, migrating from a BigQuery and PostgreSQL based analytical stack helped simplify operations and save costs.
