---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: prefect-event-driven-workflow-orchestration-powered-by-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '8.27'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

and cost savings [\#](/blog/prefect-event-driven-workflow-orchestration-powered-by-clickhouse#additional-benefits---simpler-more-resilient-data-stack-and-cost-savings) In addition to enabling Prefect to realize their vision of building a real\-time data\-driven application on top of ClickHouse, migrating from a BigQuery and PostgreSQL based analytical stack helped simplify operations and save costs.

ClickHouse allowed Prefect to consolidate multiple architectural components into one, simplifying their architecture and making it more reliable: *“ClickHouse has created resiliency in a completely new way with fewer systems to maintain, I think that's another reason why this work is so important.”* Says Bedell. Prefect also has the tools to autonomously handle large\-scale disruptions and unforeseen events, they’re reaping benefits from the platform's potential in creating resilience and adaptability

> ClickHouse was critical functionality not cost\-saving, yet ClickHouse has reduced the costs to less than $8,000 a month

Prefect was spending around $12,000 a month on CloudSQL and BigQuery overrun, because they have customers whose queries are very complex or require accessing large datasets or historical data, which would then trigger the use of BigQuery. Prefect was exceeding their budget and usage limits, resulting in additional costs. The primary motivation for implementing ClickHouse was critical functionality not cost\-saving, yet ClickHouse has reduced the costs to less than $8,000 a month. As Guidry concludes: *“We have saved costs, savings not to be sniffed at, but that was not the driving factor. This was a qualitative step. We just could not do the things we wanted until we had ClickHouse and that is why we’re so excited about it.”*

## About Prefect [\#](/blog/prefect-event-driven-workflow-orchestration-powered-by-clickhouse#about-prefect)

Prefect is a versatile event\-driven orchestration and workflow observability platform. Used for orchestrating data pipelines it simplifies the process of building, scheduling, and monitoring workflows. A Python\-based framework means users can define complex workflows as code, making it easier to manage dependencies, handle errors, and scale workflows. Prefect is widely used in industries such as finance, healthcare, e\-commerce, and more, where managing and processing large volumes of data efficiently is crucial. Prefect is continuously evolving and offers both a free, open\-source Community Edition, a paid Enterprise Edition and Prefect Cloud offering with additional features and support.

Share this postCopy URLShare on Y CombinatorShare on TwitterShare on BlueSkyShare on FacebookShare on LinkedIn### Subscribe to our newsletter

Stay informed on feature releases, product roadmap, support, and cloud offerings!Loading form...## Recent posts
