---
source: blog
url: https://www.trackingplan.com/
topic: better-analytics-at-scale-with-trackingplan-and-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

fetching rows, its limited analytical abilities required Trackingplan to perform most processing prior to data insertion using Python\-based (Pyspark) ETL pipelines. This meant any required statistics were precomputed prior to insertion, allowing Dynamo to deliver simple, fast reads.

This approach, while sufficient initially, has some obvious limitations. The computation of new statistics required the data to be reprocessed and backfilled. This lack of flexibility was compounded by Trackingplan’s ever\-improving product offering, which needed to explain the causes of the issues. As more and more statistics were computed, it became apparent the full data was often required to explain a detected issue to the end user.

On realizing that an analytical database capable of serving dynamic queries on the full data was required, Trackingplan began the evaluation of alternatives.

> "We wanted to be able to answer those questions we couldn’t foresee the user would ask. We could not know in advance all of the use cases and features needed by our users and needed an analytical solution"

## Choosing ClickHouse [\#](/blog/trackingplan-web-analytics-with-clickhouse#choosing-clickhouse)

Before deciding on ClickHouse, Trackingplan evaluated 4 alternatives: Snowflake, BigQuery, Athena and Redshift. Snowflake and BigQuery were excluded due to their pricing being multiples of the alternatives, with Trackingplan’s continuous query workload not expected to benefit from their ability to idle or only charge for bytes scanned. While Redshift was considered, testing confirmed it to be significantly slower than ClickHouse for the sample queries. Queries in Athena were 20x slower than ClickHouse.

**For ad hoc data analysis, Trackingplan found ClickHouse to be 20x faster than Athena.**

ClickHouse meanwhile offered unparalleled performance even on ad\-hoc analytical queries for which no optimizations, e.g., Materialized views, had been applied and for which linear scans were required. Millisecond performance on optimized dashboard queries and low second\-level performance on even the most complex ad\-hoc GROUP BY queries, over hundreds of millions of rows, convinced Trackingplan to build the next iteration of their product on ClickHouse.

> "With ClickHouse being a fast OLAP we can answer unplanned queries. Even if not processed ahead of time, queries always work even if they take a few seconds. This ability to inspect and work with raw data is a deal breaker."
