---
source: blog
url: https://www.trackingplan.com/
topic: better-analytics-at-scale-with-trackingplan-and-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

means schemas need to be flexible. To capture dynamic user\-specific properties, Trackingplan exploits ClickHouse’s Map and Array types. The aggregation functions for these types allow them to answer even the most complex questions. ## Ever increasing volumes [\#](/blog/trackingplan-web-analytics-with-clickhouse#ever-increasing-volumes)

Trackingplan currently has around 30 Billion rows in ClickHouse. This data volume continues to grow at over 400 % per year. While current access patterns use only the last 30 days of data, a high compression rate in ClickHouse may allow Trackingplan to keep all of the raw events, unlocking potential use cases involving historical analysis in the future.

Currently, all data is stored in a single set of tables with the customer id as a component of the ordering key. This is optimized for the most common access pattern: analytics per user. This approach to multi\-tenancy represents the simplest approach, with a table per customer also possible. Should customers need complete data separation at the storage layer, ClickHouse Cloud allows Trackingplan to achieve this by simply creating a dedicated service per customer.

## Tips and Tricks \& Future improvements [\#](/blog/trackingplan-web-analytics-with-clickhouse#tips-and-tricks--future-improvements)

Trackingplan recommends learning about ClickHouse ordering keys for query performance. While many other optimization techniques exist, they found this to be the most effective initial step and sufficient in most cases to get good query performance.

Upon identifying a popular query pattern by their users or a requirement for a new statistic to be exposed, Trackingplan creates a materialized view to optimize the query and reduce cluster load. Once the view has been created, data is backfilled for the previous 30 days using the views query and an `INSERT INTO SELECT`. This is possible as the raw data exists in ClickHouse.

Trackingplan leverages the scaling API of ClickHouse Cloud and its widespread presence across data centers in various geographical regions, a crucial aspect for ensuring compliance with local privacy regulations. Since their periods of high usage are predictable e.g. black friday, they scale their services prior to these occurring. Once they detect usage has returned to lower levels, the services are proactively reduced to minimize spend.
