---
source: blog
url: https://www.growthbook.io/
topic: how-growthbook-and-clickhouse-make-enterprise-grade-a-b-testing-easy
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

at that scale requires a fundamentally different kind of system. "When you're running five tests, the product that you build and how you scale it is entirely different from the product you build for 100,000 tests," Graham says.

To make that level of experimentation work, you need a system that's fast, flexible, and self\-serve—where any team can run tests without one team or one person being the bottleneck. You also need the cost per test to be as close to zero as possible. "If you're running 100,000 tests and you're paying per test," Graham says, "you're probably going to go broke." And the platform needs to support your custom metrics and keep up with your event volume.

Needless to say, that's a big lift. It's why many companies at this stage end up building their own experimentation platforms from scratch. But for teams that can't justify the time, cost, or complexity, GrowthBook and ClickHouse offer another path.

GrowthBook gives teams the flexibility of a homegrown system without the overhead. It's open\-source, warehouse\-native, and designed to work with the data and metrics you already have. ClickHouse, meanwhile, delivers the speed and scale to query raw event data in real time, without complex pipelines, expensive infrastructure, or heavy pre\-aggregation.

"Our goal, together with ClickHouse, is to bend that curve," Graham says, "so you can get really sophisticated, enterprise\-grade experimentation without requiring much effort at all."

## How GrowthBook and Clickhouse work together [\#](/blog/how-growthbook-and-clickhouse-make-enterprise-grade-ab-testing-easy#how-growthbook-and-clickhouse-work-together)

GrowthBook is built to sit on top of your data warehouse—no black boxes, no custom setup. Teams can assign users to experiments using feature flags, track exposure events through their existing analytics tools, and run real\-time queries using their own definitions of success.

"The idea is that it's a self\-hostable A/B testing platform you would build in\-house—only you don't have to build it," Graham says.

While GrowthBook supports a variety of data warehouses, ClickHouse is an ideal fit for teams with real\-time performance and cost\-efficiency needs. "We're huge ClickHouse fans," Graham says. "If you haven't made a decision about where to put your data, it's a great option."
