---
source: blog
url: https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/54864
topic: clickhouse-at-fosdem-2025-talks-tech-and-a-community-dinner
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

data in modern data systems. Whether it’s in logging and observability scenarios, real\-time data streaming, mobile app storage, or machine learning pipelines, JSON’s flexible structure makes it the go\-to format for capturing and transmitting data across distributed systems.

At ClickHouse, we’ve long recognized the importance of seamless JSON support. But as simple as JSON seems, leveraging it effectively at scale presents unique challenges. In this talk we will discuss how we built a new powerful JSON data type for ClickHouse with true column\-oriented storage, support for dynamically changing data structure and ability to query individual JSON paths really fast.

Links related to the topic:

- [RFC: Semistructured Columns \#54864](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/issues/54864)
- [Implement Variant data type \#58047](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/58047)
- [Implement Dynamic data type \#63058](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/63058)
- [Implement new JSON data type. \#66444](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/66444)

### Fuzzing Databases is Difficult [\#](/blog/clickhouse-at-fosdem-2025#fuzzing-databases-is-difficult)

Database reliability and security are always important priorities, and fuzz testing is one way to uncover hidden bugs. But as it turns out, **fuzzing databases is hard**. This talk dove into the complexities of fuzz testing, why traditional approaches don't always work well for databases, and what strategies can improve effectiveness. If you’re interested in database internals or security, this one was for you.

**Speaker:** Pedro Ferreira

**Abstract:** After fuzzing databases for the last 3 years, I learned that simple design decisions on a fuzzer impact on the issues it can ever find. In this talk I would to address some of those decisions. As an example, I would to discuss about the design of BuzzHouse, a new database fuzzer to test ClickHouse.

Links related to the topic:
[First iteration of Buzzhouse \#71085](https://github.com/ClickHouse/ClickHouse/pull/71085)

### \*\* rDNS Map: The Internet in Your Hands\*\* [\#](/blog/clickhouse-at-fosdem-2025#-rdns-map-the-internet-in-your-hands)

Reverse DNS (rDNS) is an often\-overlooked but powerful tool for understanding the structure of the internet. This talk explored how we can **map out rDNS data** at scale and why it's useful for network monitoring, security research, and even performance optimization.

**Speaker:** Alexey Milovidov

**Abstract:** I've created an rDNS map, available at <https://reversedns.space/>, and I want to tell you how. It was not hard to do, but there was a lot of unusual and amusing stuff in the process.

## Wrapping Up with a Community Dinner [\#](/blog/clickhouse-at-fosdem-2025#wrapping-up-with-a-community-dinner)
