---
source: blog
url: https://www.novoenergy.se/
topic: powering-the-next-generation-of-electric-cars-novo-energy
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

requirements did you have for the database/store component(s) in your architecture? [\#](/blog/powering-the-next-generation-of-electric-cars#what-requirements-did-you-have-for-the-databasestore-components-in-your-architecture) > Our primary business requirement for any database/store was that we own and control the data we store \-\- no vendor lock\-in and no walled gardens.

Luckily, that's not the most demanding requirement to fulfill. Regarding performance, we were looking for a solution that allowed us to query for a few million rows out of a dataset of billions of rows in a reasonable time without spending too much time tuning it. Additionally, we wanted a low\-maintenance or managed solution where basic hygiene like backups was part of the package, that's easy to integrate with other tools, such as Grafana or BI solutions, a familiar query language, and good language support for at least Rust and Python.

## Tell us about your discovery of ClickHouse. How did you hear about it, and what made you excited to give it a try? What were your hesitations? [\#](/blog/powering-the-next-generation-of-electric-cars#tell-us-about-your-discovery-of-clickhouse-how-did-you-hear-about-it-and-what-made-you-excited-to-give-it-a-try-what-were-your-hesitations)

We stumbled upon ClickHouse's booth at AWS Summit Stockholm in 2023\. One of the team members had seen the name before on Hacker News so we decided to approach. After a brief discussion with the two gentlemen at the booth, we realized that ClickHouse was highly relevant to our use case.

## How did you evaluate Clickhouse? How did ClickHouse perform against the alternatives considered? [\#](/blog/powering-the-next-generation-of-electric-cars#how-did-you-evaluate-clickhouse-how-did-clickhouse-perform-against-the-alternatives-considered)

Our first evaluation of ClickHouse consisted of taking it on a spin on one of our laptops, seeding it with our current data and then playing around with queries. Already at this stage, we were happy with the performance of ClickHouse because we were seeing 10\-100x performance gains at this stage. From there on we decided to try out ClickHouse Cloud free tier and after further evaluation we quickly upgraded to a paid tier.

## What alternative databases did you consider? [\#](/blog/powering-the-next-generation-of-electric-cars#what-alternative-databases-did-you-consider)
