---
source: blog
url: https://www.novoenergy.se/
topic: powering-the-next-generation-of-electric-cars-novo-energy
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 6
---

because it allows us to focus on our primary work without having to worry about maintenance, upgrades, backups, and so on. ## Can you share some quantitative metrics about ClickHouse's performance (e.g., ingest/query latency/overall data volumes/cost efficiency)? [\#](/blog/powering-the-next-generation-of-electric-cars#can-you-share-some-quantitative-metrics-about-clickhouses-performance-eg-ingestquery-latencyoverall-data-volumescost-efficiency)

At the time of writing, we're sitting on just above 400M rows of electrochemical test data. We don't think this is a lot considering we're still in a ramp\-up phase. As we commission new test equipment and push our tester utilization rate up, this number will greatly grow. When we're fully ramped up we might have around 1300 battery cells on test at any given time. The equipment will likely generate new data at roughly 0\.1 Hz. With some auxiliary sensors, sampled at the same frequency, associated with a good portion of the battery cells we're probably looking at around 2000 new records to be inserted every 10 seconds. On top of that, we'll be gathering telemetry data from our process equipment and the BMS (Building Management System). That may be another 200 records at 0\.1 Hz. We're batching our inserts to happen about once per minute, so now we're looking at 12\-13K records per minute. That's not a lot of data, but insert performance was never our highest priority when picking a database. What's more critical is query performance. For every test we're processing, we constantly check the latest record we've already processed. This will tell us when to request new data from our battery cyclers. This query looks something like this

```
SELECT channel, test_id, max(sequence_number), max(observed_at) 
FROM cycler_data GROUP BY channel, test_id

```

With a growing number of tests and every test potentially having months' worth of data, the performance of this query becomes increasingly important. At the moment, this query takes about 0\.1 seconds with just over 4400 (and 4M rows) tests in the database. Without the projection, it takes more than 17 seconds.

## Looking forward, what's next for you (and your use of ClickHouse)? [\#](/blog/powering-the-next-generation-of-electric-cars#looking-forward-whats-next-for-you-and-your-use-of-clickhouse)
