---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/3e41a19644b66d46db743db20321bd5b94b545df
topic: clickhouse-copier-20-4-21-6-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

that you need to copy. You can copy whole tables or specific partitions. `clickhouse-copier` uses temporary distributed tables to select from the source cluster and insert into the target cluster. The behavior of `clickhouse-copier` was changed in 20\.4:

- Now `clickhouse-copier` inserts data into intermediate tables, and after the insert finishes successfully `clickhouse-copier` attaches the completed partition into the target table. This allows for incremental data copying, because the data in the target table is intact during the process. **Important note:** ATTACH PARTITION respects the `max_partition_size_to_drop` limit. Make sure the `max_partition_size_to_drop` limit is big enough (or set to zero) in the destination cluster. If `clickhouse-copier` is unable to attach a partition because of the limit, it will proceed to the next partition, and it will drop the intermediate table when the task is finished (if the intermediate table is less than the `max_table_size_to_drop` limit). **Another important note:** ATTACH PARTITION is replicated. The attached partition will need to be downloaded by the other replicas. This can create significant network traffic between ClickHouse nodes. If an attach takes a long time, `clickhouse-copier` will log a timeout and will proceed to the next step.
- Now `clickhouse-copier` splits the source data into chunks and copies them one by one. This is useful for big source tables, when inserting one partition of data can take hours. If there is an error during the insert `clickhouse-copier` has to drop the whole partition and start again. The `number_of_splits` parameter lets you split your data into chunks so that in case of an exception `clickhouse-copier` has to re\-insert only one chunk of the data.
- Now `clickhouse-copier` runs `OPTIMIZE target_table PARTITION ... DEDUPLICATE` for non\-Replicated MergeTree tables. **Important note:** This is a very strange feature that can do more harm than good. We recommend to disable it by configuring the engine of the target table as Replicated in the task configuration file, and create the target tables manually if they are not supposed to be replicated. Intermediate tables are always created as plain MergeTree.

## The process is as follows
