---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://github.com/Altinity/altinityknowledgebase/commit/3e41a19644b66d46db743db20321bd5b94b545df
topic: clickhouse-copier-20-4-21-6-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

the target table as Replicated in the task configuration file, and create the target tables manually if they are not supposed to be replicated. Intermediate tables are always created as plain MergeTree. ## The process is as follows

1. Process the configuration files.
2. Discover the list of partitions if not provided in the config.
3. Copy partitions one by one \*\* The metadata in ZooKeeper suggests the order described here.\*\*
	1. Copy chunks of data one by one.
		1. Copy data from source shards one by one.
			1. Create intermediate tables on all shards of the target cluster.
			2. Check the status of the chunk in ZooKeeper.
			3. Drop the partition from the intermediate table if the previous attempt was interrupted.
			4. Insert the chunk of data into the intermediate tables.
			5. Mark the shard as completed in ZooKeeper
	2. Attach the chunks of the completed partition into the target table one by one
		1. Attach a chunk into the target table.
		2. **non\-Replicated:** Run OPTIMIZE target\_table DEDUPLICATE for the partition on the target table.
4. Drop intermediate tables (may not succeed if the tables are bigger than `max_table_size_to_drop`).

If there are several workers running simultaneously, they will assign themselves to different source shards.
If a worker was interrupted, another worker can be started to continue the task. The next worker will drop incomplete partitions and resume the copying.

## Configuring the engine of the target table

`clickhouse-copier` uses the engine from the task configuration file for these purposes:

- to create target and intermediate tables if they don’t exist.
- PARTITION BY: to SELECT a partition of data from the source table, to ATTACH partitions into target tables, to DROP incomplete partitions from intermediate tables, to OPTIMIZE partitions after they are attached to the target.
- ORDER BY: to SELECT a chunk of data from the source table.

Here is an example of SELECT that `clickhouse-copier` runs to get the sixth of ten chunks of data:
