---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/clickhouse-zookeeper/zookeeper-installation/
topic: engines-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

# Engines \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

This is the multi\-page printable view of this section.
[Click here to print](#).

[Return to the regular view of this page](/engines/).

# Engines

Learn about ClickHouse® engines, from MergeTree, Atomic Database to RocksDB.- 1: [ClickHouse® Atomic Database Engine](#pg-f66b95c57f521c130ea27dc08c4001d3)
- 1\.1: [How to Convert Ordinary to Atomic](#pg-7e67c7ea6f6b30f9350b23cdf9c765e8)
- 1\.2: [How to Convert Atomic to Ordinary](#pg-094af220e72e8217a5c6408e9fb28441)

- 2: [EmbeddedRocksDB \& dictionary](#pg-e7793367aa57a982ff6c2d3563d34ba1)
- 3: [MergeTree table engine family](#pg-111114ee864d54609e37256ff37b54b2)
- 3\.1: [CollapsingMergeTree vs ReplacingMergeTree](#pg-39de8f3f8c8cf6014966ffabf07b5f36)
- 3\.2: [Part names \& MVCC](#pg-f8ee420ce797f5bd74e9ad832fb7ede8)
- 3\.3: [How to pick an ORDER BY / PRIMARY KEY / PARTITION BY for the MergeTree family table](#pg-eabd97bf38d9bf51a18f6fc47b73976c)
- 3\.4: [ClickHouse® AggregatingMergeTree](#pg-13320e2ec8ad95f03a591ed9ab7c0fff)
- 3\.5: [index \& column files](#pg-3993a1a8f9912be8a28bffc901d45c13)
- 3\.6: [Merge performance and OPTIMIZE FINAL](#pg-612ea6e9ecd36d8f33ca4a03ba920b56)
- 3\.7: [Nulls in order by](#pg-a1c8dd8eeb296b0b27c88e4b4cf38657)
- 3\.8: [ReplacingMergeTree](#pg-77e174a17f4f34154cd99cabdcad1497)
- 3\.8\.1: [ReplacingMergeTree does not collapse duplicates](#pg-1b0b1062d846cf47875d5cb6db6349be)

- 3\.9: [Skip index](#pg-0c1af116ef46ec0ccb74f6eaca080e18)
- 3\.10: [SummingMergeTree](#pg-37369923d4954e60a24307e3acdc5c5f)
- 3\.11: [UPSERT by VersionedCollapsingMergeTree](#pg-20074c1fcc73e50e0fc6c109d8450f17)

Generally: the **main** engine in ClickHouse® is called [MergeTree](/engines/mergetree-table-engine-family/)
. It allows to store and process data on one server and feel all the advantages of ClickHouse. Basic usage of MergeTree does not require any special configuration, and you can start using it ‘out of the box’.

But one server and one copy of data are not fault\-tolerant \- something can happen with the server itself, with datacenter availability, etc. So you need to have the replica(s) \- i.e. server(s) with the same data and which can ‘substitute’ the original server at any moment.

To have an extra copy (replica) of your data you need to use [ReplicatedMergeTree](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-converting-mergetree-to-replicated/)
engine. It can be used *instead* of MergeTree engine, and you can always upgrade from MergeTree to ReplicatedMergeTree (and downgrade back) if you need. To use that you need to have
[ZooKeeper installed](https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/clickhouse-zookeeper/zookeeper-installation/)
and running. For tests, you can use one standalone Zookeeper instance, but for production usage, you should have zookeeper ensemble at least of 3 servers.
