---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/clickhouse-zookeeper/zookeeper-installation/
topic: engines-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: '1.0'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 42
---

back) if you need. To use that you need to have [ZooKeeper installed](https://docs.altinity.com/operationsguide/clickhouse-zookeeper/zookeeper-installation/) and running. For tests, you can use one standalone Zookeeper instance, but for production usage, you should have zookeeper ensemble at least of 3 servers.

When you use ReplicatedMergeTree then the inserted data is copied automatically to all the replicas, but all the SELECTs are executed on the single server you have connected to. So you can have 5 replicas of your data, but if you will always connect to one replica \- it will not ‘share’ / ‘balance’ that traffic automatically between all the replicas, one server will be loaded and the rest will generally do nothing. If you need that balancing of load between multiple replicas \- you can use the internal ’loadbalancer’ mechanism which is provided by Distributed engine of ClickHouse. As an alternative in that scenario you can work without [Distributed table](/altinity-kb-setup-and-maintenance/altinity-kb-data-migration/distributed-table-cluster/)
, but with some external load balancer that will balance the requests between several replicas according to your specific rules or preferences, or just cluster\-aware client which will pick one of the servers for the query time.

The Distributed engine does not store any data, but it can ‘point’ to the same ReplicatedMergeTree/MergeTree table on multiple servers. To use Distributed engine you need to configure `<cluster>` settings in your ClickHouse server config file.

So let’s say you have 3 replicas of table `my_replicated_data` with ReplicatedMergeTree engine. You can create a table with Distributed engine called `my_distributed_replicated_data` which will ‘point’ to all of that 3 servers, and when you will select from that `my_distributed_replicated_data table` the select will be forwarded and executed on one of the replicas. So in that scenario, each replica will get 1/3 of requests (but each request still will be fully executed on one chosen replica).

All that is great, and will work well while one copy of your data is fitting on a single physical server, and can be processed by the resources of one server. When you have too much data to be stored/processed on one server \- you need to use sharding (it’s just a way to split the data into smaller parts). Sharding is the mechanism also provided by Distributed engine.
