---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/user-stories?useCase=1
topic: instrumenting-your-nextjs-application-with-opentelemetry-and-clickstack
ch_version_introduced: '0.9'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 11
total_chunks_in_doc: 13
---

3GROUP BY Package 4ORDER BY visits DESC 5LIMIT 20 ``` ``` The above simple example would be achievable with most observability tools. But suppose we wanted to go further and correlate our application data with our observability data.

For example, we have often wondered if ClickPy is appreciably slower for more popular packages. This may seem intuitive as more popular packages \= more rows in ClickHouse. However, our use of incremental materialized views should negate this \- compute aggregates at insert time and exploit background merges to keep the number of rows per project relatively constant.

> Incremental materialized views shift computation from query time to insert time by persisting the results of a SELECT query. As new rows are inserted, the defined SQL query is applied immediately, and the results are written to a target table. Queries against this target are significantly faster since the heavy computation has already been performed. Background merges then consolidates partial aggregates for the same GROUP BY key, ensuring accurate and efficient results over time. For more details, see the [documentation](https://clickhouse.com/docs/materialized-view/incremental-materialized-view)

For this, we need a query that asks whether queries for high\-download packages (i.e., those contributing more to our \~1\.8T rows) load any slower than queries for less frequently downloaded packages. If ClickPy is implemented well, larger packages shouldn’t be noticeably slower.

**To answer this, we need to correlate observability data with application data.**

First, total downloads per package (via the `pypi.pypi_downloads_per_day` materialized view) from our application data:

```

```
1SELECT
2  project,
3  sum(count) AS total
4FROM pypi.pypi_downloads_per_day
5GROUP BY project
```


```

To measure package\-level performance in ClickPy, we use the average query response time from ClickHouse i.e., the `db.response_time_ms` column. The package name is embedded in the span attributes as a JSON string, which we extract using schema\-on\-read with the [`JSONExtractString`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/sql-reference/functions/json-functions#jsonextractstring) function.

```

```
1SELECT
2  JSONExtractString(SpanAttributes['db.parameters'], 'package_name') AS project,
3  avg(toUInt64OrZero(SpanAttributes['db.response_time_ms'])) AS avg_performance
4FROM otel_clickpy.otel_traces
5WHERE JSONExtractString(SpanAttributes['db.parameters'], 'package_name') != ''
6  AND toUInt64OrZero(SpanAttributes['db.response_time_ms']) > 0
7GROUP BY project
8ORDER BY avg_performance DESC
```


```
