---
source: kb.altinity.com
url: https://altinity.com/legal/content-licensing-agreement-cla/
topic: using-this-knowledge-base-altinity-knowledge-base-for-clickhouse
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 1
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

# Using This Knowledge Base \| Altinity® Knowledge Base for ClickHouse®

1. Using This Knowledge Base
# Using This Knowledge Base

Add pages, make updates, and contribute to this ClickHouse® knowledge base.The Altinity Knowledge Base is built on GitHub Pages, using Hugo and Docsy. This guide provides a brief description on how to make updates and add to this knowledge base.

## Page and Section Basics

The knowledge base is structured in a simple directory format, with the content of the Knowledge Base stored under the directory `content/en`.

Each section is a directory, with the file `_index.md` that provides that sections information. For example, the `Upgrade` section has the following layout:

```
├── upgrade
│   ├── _index.md
│   └── removing-empty-parts.md

```
Each Markdown file provides the section’s information and the title that is displayed on the left navigation panel, with the file `_index.md` providing the top level information on the section.

Each page is set in the following format that sets the page attributes:

```
---
title: "Using This Knowledge Base"
linkTitle: "Using This Knowledge Base"
description: >
    How to add pages, make updates, and expand this knowledge base.    
weight: 11
---
The content of the page in Markdown format.

```
The attributes are as follows:

- **title**: The title of the page displayed at the top of the page.
- **linkTitle**: The title used in the left navigation panel.
- **description**: A short description of the page listed under the title.
- **weight**: The placement of the page in the hierarchy in the left navigation panel. The higher the weight, the higher in the display order it will be. For example, the file `engines/_index.md` has a weight of `1`, pushing its display to the top of the list.

## Create Pages and Sections

### Create or Edit A Page

To create a new page or edit an existing one in the knowledge base:
