---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: from-experimentation-to-production-the-journey-to-supercolumn
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

on commodity hardware (and cheap ones, at that – you can check our blog for some specs if you want to have a look) on a full CPU basis (once again, no pricy FPGAs or ASICs for us).

What we offer could be summed up in one word: **Observability**. But not the traditional “network monitoring” kind. No *Netflow, sflow, IPFIX* or *SNMP*, and the likes for us. Those technologies work fine, but they lack the breadth and room to grow. They all lack visibility in one way or another and none of them can really do cybersecurity. Based on the absolute unifying link: **the Network**, our core vision is that network performance and cybersecurity are two sides of the same coin, addressing the first without the second makes no sense.

Our main goal is now to analyze complex and changing network traffic at line\-rate high speed. And to do it with asynchronous feed (different probes installed in and around several layers of the network). Pretty challenging, right?
Basically, the database we were looking for had to be:

- Able to deal with fast (and constant) inserts while running periodic queries for alerting and custom queries launched by multiple users,
- Equipped with a hot/cold data buffering system to store data in RAM for alerting queries,
- Easy to maintain and deploy,
- Able to ingest huge volumes of data on one system and still being nimble. Meaning: not having to multicluster / shard too quickly before we hit the 10TB mark (and even after, actually)
- Be very efficient in RAM usage

As you might have guessed, to use the full potential of our network probes and bundle them into products as pervasive as we wished them to be while being able to tackle nowadays’ many hybrid challenges (M/L, cybersecurity, etc...), we needed our probes to be supported with a pretty good database. And that’s where some of our initial hurdles came from. Because we didn’t know it at the time, but what we needed in fact, was a database as groundbreaking as our probe!

## Habits die hard, older habits die even harder [\#](/blog/from-experimentation-to-production-the-journey-to-supercolumn#habits-die-hard-older-habits-die-even-harder)
