---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: from-experimentation-to-production-the-journey-to-supercolumn
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

of our initial hurdles came from. Because we didn’t know it at the time, but what we needed in fact, was a database as groundbreaking as our probe! ## Habits die hard, older habits die even harder [\#](/blog/from-experimentation-to-production-the-journey-to-supercolumn#habits-die-hard-older-habits-die-even-harder)

Traditional RDBMS have long been built around smart transactional management systems. A technology that serves many use cases well and has done that well for ages. Our main engineers successfully used MySQL or PostgreSQL in their previous careers. We knew most of them wouldn’t make the cut, in the long run. Their data schemes are too heavily reliant on update speed and need clustering when overall performance becomes an issue.

But we still tried a couple of those “dad\-a\-base" ????. Mainly because OLTP seemed a prerequisite for some of the queries we had in mind. I am not sure I can mention their names (all good ones, but they just didn’t fit our needs). Let’s say we weren’t expecting much at the time, and even then, we still got disappointed.

To give you a little more context, we had to get successful benchmarks for extracting flow metadata on 1Gb/s networks. In extreme cases, we had to feed as many as 1\.4 million flow/s inside the database (around 30 to 250 columns depending on circumstances). Let’s just say traditional RDBMS or graph databases were not giving us 25% of what we needed on the hardware we had.

And our endgame was to make it run smoothly on 100Gb/s networks... I guess that’s what you get with ***crud*** work ;\-)

But let’s go back a little bit and let me give you more context.

## Best broths are cooked in the oldest pans... or it is said [\#](/blog/from-experimentation-to-production-the-journey-to-supercolumn#best-broths-are-cooked-in-the-oldest-pans-or-it-is-said)

To tell you the truth, dear reader, OLAP was not my first choice of database. And ClickHouse wasn’t either. Coming from Yandex (but Open Source), we had some reservations. First and foremost, I was looking for OLTP hyperscaling databases where sharding or multi\-clustering was the name of the game.
