---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: from-experimentation-to-production-the-journey-to-supercolumn
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

first choice of database. And ClickHouse wasn’t either. Coming from Yandex (but Open Source), we had some reservations. First and foremost, I was looking for OLTP hyperscaling databases where sharding or multi\-clustering was the name of the game.

Buzzwords are important. I remember one of my first client, that was pre\-COVID, and in another company (that was literally the Dark Ages). That client was hell\-bent on a Hadoop multi\-clustering infrastructure with TCO in the 7\-digits (euros). All of that to support very basic NLP ETLs expected to handle several hundred MB of data…. monthly. But at the time, Hadoop was all the rage and the CTO of that administration wanted to play with that shiny new toy. Without realizing what it truly entailed. That was my first real true taste of the power of buzzwords in tech. So, when Nano’s story begins, multi\-clustering was already the answer to every problem data storage was rumored to have.

In the end, I too was looking to design and implement multi\-clustering databases. Because it was cool and because with the numbers I had playing in my mind, I was pretty sure no other databases than XXXXXXXX could handle the expected volumes of data. Not without many clustering and replication nodes for speedy querying. Unfortunately, deploying multi\-clustering databases without spending enough time on designing and building robust data schemes is like having your cake and eating it. Unless you are in a hugely profitable company with C\-Suite personnel without knowledge of real prices in tech, you quickly realize there is no free lunch, eh?

Our pre\-requisites were harsh, and we were looking for top\-notch performances over anything else…. The asymptotic quest of the dream world in tech. But then we had to discuss something techies don’t really like to think about: cost. Because in their minds, performance is a pure abstract in a perfect world of numbers and ideals. A world where money is dirty, only meant to be talked about by droning bean\-counters wanting to kill their dreams. Remember, we could spend weeks shaving off 3 to 4 nanoseconds for each network packet managed by the probe… the change we had to make in our mindset was pretty huge.
