---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: from-experimentation-to-production-the-journey-to-supercolumn
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

droning bean\-counters wanting to kill their dreams. Remember, we could spend weeks shaving off 3 to 4 nanoseconds for each network packet managed by the probe… the change we had to make in our mindset was pretty huge.

Early hardware requirements to support the database meant to ingest data from multiple 10Gbit/s probes, for example, were… staggering. And that was without considering the fact using OLTP database meant we would have needed people to maintain such complex architectures. Some would say multi\-clustering is always messy, especially when it’s done right. But… we were (and still are at the time I write those lines) a small company. We wanted cheap, we wanted powerful, scalable and of course, we wanted “easy” at all stages. No mean feat, I can tell you that.

In the end, all our initial tests with traditional OLTP databases were... well... disappointing, to say the least. And it didn’t scale. Even when they said it did. To increase efficiency, we had to spend an inordinate amount on hardware. Which was contrary to all our core beliefs (and those of the procurement desk at any of our clients’ ;\-)

## A fresh breeze from the East [\#](/blog/from-experimentation-to-production-the-journey-to-supercolumn#a-fresh-breeze-from-the-east)

One day, while I was steadily losing hair and sleep, here came my Lead Data Scientist. With a coffee in one hand and his phone in another, telling me quite jokingly: « I want to try out ClickHouse! ».

I can’t tell you enough how much gall that guy had at the time!

We had a client who wanted a sizing and I had been spending days (and weekends) designing an artful data scheme and squeezing through hardware options…. And he was coming to me, asking us to deploy an underdog newcomer into the database community.

In his hunt for a data store running analytical queries over huge volumes of data with interactive latencies, he literally ran across ClickHouse, touted as the fastest data warehouse in the market.
