---
source: blog
url: https://x.com/ClickhouseDB
topic: from-experimentation-to-production-the-journey-to-supercolumn
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

underdog newcomer into the database community. In his hunt for a data store running analytical queries over huge volumes of data with interactive latencies, he literally ran across ClickHouse, touted as the fastest data warehouse in the market.

I’m sure you’re already thinking. Fastest data warehouse... we’ve all heard that one, before, right? Spoiler alert: it is the speediest. Actually, it was so fast that I was sure our first benchmarks had to be buggy, and the results had to be fake. I asked my lead data scientist to take a look at those benchmarks. He stopped, watching with curious eyes as he sent query after query and it returned us numbers in a blink of an eye, what normally took several seconds or even minutes with my legacy database, was now done in milliseconds. Wow.

At the time, I thought: “if Cloudflare, a worldwide company specialized and renowned in network, chose ClickHouse, it could only mean they must be onto something ????"

After we ran a bunch of different tests, we were won over. But why exactly? Well, mainly for ClickHouse’s fast multiple inserts, fast indexing, powerful materialized views, its wonderful MergeTree function, and of course, its great documentation supported by an even better community (though that’s a very personal opinion, of course).

Even though later, we had a quick peek at other OLAP databases, like Druid or Pinot, we stayed with ClickHouse. In no small part because data ingestion in ClickHouse is far more efficient than with its alternatives. It doesn’t need to prepare “segments” containing strictly all data falling into specific time intervals and it allows for simpler data ingestion architecture and easier maintenance (remember, we are still a small startup) and it saves computational power. Which is needed because our probes send data for ClickHouse to be ingested constantly while also running constant queries on hot and cold data. ClickHouse’s batch insert philosophy was also especially suited to our technology as we make intermediary batches ourselves for all data to be ingested (a bit like Kafka does, actually, though on a faaaar lower spectrum).
