---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/cloud/clickpipes
topic: the-new-clickhouse-cloud-experience
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 3
---

the simple step\-by\-step workflows for ingesting and managing streaming data in ClickHouse. We call these [ClickPipes](https://clickhouse.com/cloud/clickpipes), and we believe that the ease with which continuous data can be imported into ClickHouse Cloud will prove to be a game\-changer.

Data ingestion in ClickHouse Cloud

Performing common operational actions such as starting and stopping your service, adjusting autoscaling settings, or creating traffic filtering rules have been combined into a new Settings area, again, accessible from the main navigation. This gives you one single place to go and manage your infrastructure. If you have multiple services, there's a handy shortcut for switching between them in the navigation sidebar.

Outside of service\-specific actions, there are Account and Organization\-level controls that we've ensured are still just a click away. Items such as User Management, API Keys, and Billing, are all neatly located in the new Organization menu, while your Account profile and Security settings can be accessed from the menu triggered by the user avatar.

Providing both light and dark themes has become essential in modern web app development, and if you ask ten people which they prefer, there's a good chance you'll end up with an even split. For this reason, we felt it was important to give ClickHouse Cloud users the choice of how they want to experience the app.

Dark and Light themes available in ClickHouse Cloud

Building off our new design system and component library, [Click UI](https://click-ui.vercel.app), we've been able to create a modern, elegant, and consistent aesthetic throughout the Cloud experience. We firmly believe that in addition to being attractive and usable, the leading UI's are predictable. We felt that the best way to achieve that predictability was to implement and maintain a strict design system and consistent UX patterns.

While this was a lot of upfront work, it now allows us to design and develop at a rapid pace while staying on\-brand and uniform in everything we do. This becomes ever\-more important as teams grow and so it was important to establish this early in the ClickHouse company journey.

This is just the start, we have even more big improvements right around the corner. We'd love to hear your thoughts, so join our [slack channel](https://clickhouse.com/slack) if you have feedback or would like to follow along in our journey.
