---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.cloud/signUp
topic: clickhouse-cloud-is-now-in-public-beta
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 5
---

the increase in demand in one area. It is also worth noting that our use of object storage as the primary storage has a big impact on the cost efficiency of the service, especially when serving large datasets.

Our [pricing model](https://clickhouse.com/pricing) also reflects this commitment to efficiency: you only pay for work done, not idle resources. Reducing wasted resources is also an environmental benefit, which is taking on a growing importance for us and many of our customers who are looking to reduce their carbon footprint where they can.

### Security [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-public-beta#security)

ClickHouse Cloud was built with a security\-first philosophy that permeates the whole platform. This “secure by default” mindset means that ClickHouse Cloud generates secure passwords and enforces IP filtering by default. A security team is constantly monitoring and evaluating security threats, dedicated to ensuring the protection and integrity of our customer’s data.

In addition, the platform has strong authentication and role\-based access control, including federated authentication via Google. It employs strong encryption at rest and in transit, and strong network access controls, including support for AWS PrivateLink, and provides activity and audit logging.

We have already acquired accreditations such as SOC 2 Type I, with SOC 2 Type II in progress. ClickHouse Cloud is also GDPR and CCPA compliant.

### Ecosystem [\#](/blog/clickhouse-cloud-public-beta#ecosystem)

ClickHouse Cloud has the ability to seamlessly interact with other systems, such as data sources, user interfaces, and programming languages, often with the simplicity of a few clicks in our Cloud Console. Building on the top of a solid open\-source base, we are making significant investments developing and maintaining a strategic set of integrations, and have an active partnership with many key vendors in our ecosystem to help them integrate with our platform. Our incredible community is also full of organizations and individuals who are developing and publishing their own ways of interacting with ClickHouse.

At Beta launch, we have curated a list of ClickHouse Integrations available in our Cloud Console that include:
