---
source: blog
url: https://messagebird.com/
topic: how-messagebird-uses-clickhouse-to-monitor-the-delivery-of-billions-of-messages
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

been a really good match for MessageBird." ## Performance Monitoring: Guaranteeing Operational Excellence [\#](/blog/how-messagebird-uses-clickhouse-to-monitor-the-delivery-of-billions-of-messages#performance-monitoring-guaranteeing-operational-excellence) Performance monitoring is critical for MessageBird. Metrics drawn from their ClickHouse\-driven data infrastructure enable teams to track SMS delivery performance and promptly identify anomalies.

The versatility of ClickHouse plays a crucial role in supporting both internal and external use cases. Within MessageBird, the same ClickHouse cluster is used for a variety of functions. To ensure optimal performance, different policies and quotas are set based on the specific use case. "Although we use the same ClickHouse cluster for various functions, we have different policies and quotas in place depending on the use case. This allows us to control the timeout for queries and manage resource consumption effectively," said Llorente.

Their internal utilization of ClickHouse allows their teams to leverage the data in near real\-time. As Dennis van der Vliet, Senior Engineering Manager at MessageBird, explains, "When a customer raises a concern about message delivery to a specific country, our tooling, powered by ClickHouse, becomes the go\-to resource for understanding the situation."

## MessageBird's Cloud Transition with ClickHouse [\#](/blog/how-messagebird-uses-clickhouse-to-monitor-the-delivery-of-billions-of-messages#messagebirds-cloud-transition-with-clickhouse)

MessageBird first adopted ClickHouse in 2017, transitioning from a custom cron setup on MySQL due to scalability and latency challenges. To further scale its services and manage growing data volumes, MessageBird migrated from a self\-managed, on\-premise solution to ClickHouse Cloud. This transition was driven by the need for a more scalable, resilient, and efficient data infrastructure, but was also significantly influenced by the cost factor.

Migrating to ClickHouse Cloud brought significant benefits, including substantial cost savings from the shift from SSD storage to more economical S3 storage. Moreover, the use of [Projections](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/statements/alter/projection) in ClickHouse became more cost\-effective due to S3's low data storage costs.

## Cost Efficiency with ClickHouse Cloud [\#](/blog/how-messagebird-uses-clickhouse-to-monitor-the-delivery-of-billions-of-messages#cost-efficiency-with-clickhouse-cloud)

Since moving to ClickHouse Cloud MessageBird has experienced significant savings, with a reduction in costs of approximately 60\-70%. This saving relates not only to the direct costs, such as self\-hosted fees but also to the overhead costs associated with maintenance and infrastructure management. In their experience, the migration to ClickHouse Cloud made considerable economic sense.

## ClickHouse Cloud Scalability and Performance Benefits [\#](/blog/how-messagebird-uses-clickhouse-to-monitor-the-delivery-of-billions-of-messages#clickhouse-cloud-scalability-and-performance-benefits)
