---
source: blog
url: https://www.internationalwomensday.com/
topic: stories-of-difference-inspiration-courage-and-empathy-international-women-s-day-2022
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

am a Director of Go To Market Technology, and I implement and manage the sales, marketing, and support tech stacks at ClickHouse. I’m passionate about making systems work.” \_ **Roopa Tangirala, Sr. Director, Cloud Engineering** Bay Area, California

*“I have over 20\+ years experience in databases both SQL and NoSQL, spent a major chunk, 14\.5 years at Netflix leading the transactional datastore teams. I joined ClickHouse last year as Senior Engineering Director to lead the cloud engineering efforts to help build ClickHouse Cloud which I believe will change OLAP landscape making it easier for everyone to make data driven decisions.”*

**Tanya Bragin, Vice President, Product**

Bay Area, California

*“I am a computer scientist by training, with advanced degrees from UCLA and University of Washington, where I studied distributed computer systems. I started my professional career in technical consulting and solution architecture, and was fortunate to spend the last decade and a half growing product and design organizations from early stages to maturity at data analytics startups — ExtraHop, Elastic, and now ClickHouse.”*

**Dorota Szeremeta, Vice President, Operations**

Miami, Florida

\_“I am a builder at heart. I am most proud of my nine\-year Salesforce career, where I helped Salesforce scale (from \~$2B revenues across \~7,500 employees to $20B revenues across 50,000\+ employees) in key leadership roles across the Tableau M\&A, Global Business Planning, Sales Strategy, Customer Success, and Employe Success / Global Workforce Planning organizations. Prior to Salesforce, I held several strategist roles at VMWare and Hewlett Packard, as well as multiple consultative roles. I graduated from UCLA Anderson School of Management with a M.B.A. in strategy, Georgetown University with a M.A. focused on network economics and technology, and a B.A. from Brown University as a double major in classics and modern culture and media. \_

**Kseniia Sumarokova, Software Engineer**

Amsterdam, The Netherlands
