---
source: blog
url: https://www.internationalwomensday.com/
topic: stories-of-difference-inspiration-courage-and-empathy-international-women-s-day-2022
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

in strategy, Georgetown University with a M.A. focused on network economics and technology, and a B.A. from Brown University as a double major in classics and modern culture and media. \_ **Kseniia Sumarokova, Software Engineer** Amsterdam, The Netherlands

*“Hi. I am Kseniia as you know, or Ksusha — my short name for friends. I have been working at ClickHouse for more than a year now. In the distant past, I was a volleyball player (about 6 years of training), but dropped playing when I entered university, but love for some sport still remains and I am always eager to do any physical activity. Also I have a twin sister who studies Chinese and will soon move to China to continue there. I miss her a lot.”*

Enough about who these amazing ladies are! Let’s see what they had to say:

---

## **WHAT INSPIRED YOU TO GET INVOLVED WORKING FOR A TECHNOLOGY COMPANY?** [\#](/blog/stories-of-difference-inspiration-courage-and-empathy-international-womens-day-2022#what-inspired-you-to-get-involved-working-for-a-technology-company)

**Elissa:** What initially inspired me to work in technology was a love of computers and maths from a very early age. What has kept me in the industry for such a long time is the constant change and excitement that comes with working with new technologies. But more so it comes down to the people I interact with daily. I am fortunate to meet so many down\-to\-earth colleagues, users and customers from all over the world, who make my work a joy.

**Kseniia:** I have been working in ClickHouse for more than a year now, but my first contribution to ClickHouse was much earlier — on my second year at university, when doing my yearly course work. Then again I did my third year course work in ClickHouse and about the same time started working there. Now I am 3 months away from finishing university with a degree in Applied Mathematics and Computer science (and again this year my diploma is connected with ClickHouse).
