---
source: blog
url: https://www.internationalwomensday.com/
topic: stories-of-difference-inspiration-courage-and-empathy-international-women-s-day-2022
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 4
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

in ClickHouse and about the same time started working there. Now I am 3 months away from finishing university with a degree in Applied Mathematics and Computer science (and again this year my diploma is connected with ClickHouse).

**Tanya:** I was drawn to science and technology from early childhood. I grew up in a family of scientists, and gravitated toward math and physical sciences throughout school. I was always surprised by the lack of diversity in STEM programs. I believe our biases have roots in experiences from early childhood and manifest later in life by field of study and professional choices individuals make. As a result, I consider it important to invest in programs that encourage kids from all walks of life to be passionate about a variety of subjects — including math, science, computer programming, and digital design — and build a broad base of skills to be successful in any profession they choose.

---

## **WHO IN YOUR PERSONAL LIFE OR YOUR CAREER HAS CONTRIBUTED THE MOST IN EITHER MENTORING YOU, HELPING YOU OVERCOME BARRIERS OF BIAS, OR GIVING YOU THE CONFIDENCE TO PURSUE YOUR PROFESSIONAL GOALS?** [\#](/blog/stories-of-difference-inspiration-courage-and-empathy-international-womens-day-2022#who-in-your-personal-life-or-your-career-has-contributed-the-most-in-either-mentoring-you-helping-you-overcome-barriers-of-bias-or-giving-you-the-confidence-to-pursue-your-professional-goals)

**Claire:** Thom O’Connor, our VP of Support Services at ClickHouse, made a big impact in my career recently. I spent 5 years at my former company working with Thom, and during this time he trusted me to run off and solve problems. If I was stuck on a problem, he coached me to think about it from a new perspective which made a lasting impact on how I approached the management or business problem going forward. When it came to discussing my career, Thom saw potential in me and it really helped me to gain confidence in my role and in my career.
