---
source: blog
url: https://www.internationalwomensday.com/
topic: stories-of-difference-inspiration-courage-and-empathy-international-women-s-day-2022
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

on how I approached the management or business problem going forward. When it came to discussing my career, Thom saw potential in me and it really helped me to gain confidence in my role and in my career.

**Roopa:** My parents! From my childhood, they instilled in me the values of looking at diverse perspectives and accepting differences (I grew up in a university where there were people from all states and cultures). Growing up in India, where there is an implicit gender bias almost everywhere, in my household, both me and my brother were treated equally and we were encouraged to be courageous and ask questions when we didn’t see eye to eye with others. These principles have guided me on multiple occasions in my professional life as well and helped overcome barriers of bias.

**Yuko:** I grew up in Japan and moved to the United States when I was 14\. I had a lot of challenges learning the language and culture, so it was hard for me to differentiate what I was facing. In Japan, it is a norm for women to play supporting roles to men, and I was used to this idea. At my last employer, I was lucky enough to have a manager who fought for me. He made sure I negotiated for myself and he recognized I was not good at emphasizing my own value, so he pushed me to get comfortable with the idea until I could negotiate for myself. I’m glad I found an environment where I could grow out of this preconceived notion.

**Dorota:** Over a decade ago, I met a mentor and executive champion who had a profound impact on me personally, in how I think about my career, and how I approach business in general. He created space for me to stretch and grow as part of my job and he advocated for me when I was not in the room. His approach to mentorship has shaped how I try to show up for my teams and colleagues. I had the privilege to work for [Steve Pickle](https://www.linkedin.com/in/stevepickle/) at two different companies, in four different roles, and I hope that our professional paths cross again.

---
