---
source: blog
url: https://www.internationalwomensday.com/
topic: stories-of-difference-inspiration-courage-and-empathy-international-women-s-day-2022
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 7
---

how I try to show up for my teams and colleagues. I had the privilege to work for [Steve Pickle](https://www.linkedin.com/in/stevepickle/) at two different companies, in four different roles, and I hope that our professional paths cross again. ---

## **WHAT’S A SIMPLE TIP, OR A FEW, THAT YOU THINK HELPS MAKES TEAMS MORE INCLUSIVE FOR EVERYONE? WHAT HAVE YOU FOUND HELPFUL IN REDUCING BIAS?** [\#](/blog/stories-of-difference-inspiration-courage-and-empathy-international-womens-day-2022#whats-a-simple-tip-or-a-few-that-you-think-helps-makes-teams-more-inclusive-for-everyone-what-have-you-found-helpful-in-reducing-bias)

**Anne:** One tip is to always find the silver lining. I’ve once been told I was too “bubbly” to be taken seriously for a management role. The way it was used, that word had a negative connotation. However, bubbly can also be passionate. So I took the feedback, signed up for public speaking courses, and was able to convert the negative connotation to a positive. My “bubbly\-ness” is what got me to where I am today. Candidates and my hiring managers can see my passion and enthusiasm, which has actually worked in my favor. One item perceived as a negative can also be viewed as a positive for so many others.

**Roopa:** Create a culture of psychological safety as an explicit priority and encourage everyone to speak up. The first step in reducing bias is to accept the fact that we all have bias and it’s important to be self\-aware where these biases are showing up. Empathy and courage are both important in reducing bias, empathy to put yourself in others shoes and courage to speak up and question yourself and others when you see bias showing up in the workplace.

**Claire:** I put myself in the shoes of someone else. I meditate every day before work and this brings awareness to what I am experiencing and builds empathy to what others are experiencing around the world. It takes more than just empathy to build an inclusive environment, it takes action. A good leader senses when it’s the right time to step in and help someone be included into the conversation and the opportunity. It’s these leaders that take the action to check in privately, ask what someone thinks, offer an opportunity, and speak up when someone else is being discriminated against or treated unfairly that makes the difference.
