---
source: blog
url: https://presentations.clickhouse.com/meetup12/introduction/
topic: clickhouse-community-meetup-in-beijing-on-january-27-2018
ch_version_introduced: auto
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 3
total_chunks_in_doc: 4
---

the IT industry have to know English well enough to read documentation, but it does not really imply that they can talk or understand verbal English well. So the talks by representatives of local companies were in Chinese.

Jack Gao, ex\-DBA and now an analyst at Sina (major social network) have dedicated a significant part of his talk to go over fundamental topics essential to most ClickHouse users. It partially overlapped with previous talks, but this time in Chinese. Also, he covered not only use case of ClickHouse in Sina but also other publicly known cases by other companies. Considering the reaction of the audience, it has been the most useful talk of the whole meetup, because of the widely useful content, lack of language barrier, and excellent execution of presentation. We even had to sacrifice initially scheduled a short break to give Jack some additional time ([slides](https://presentations.clickhouse.com/meetup12/power_your_data.pdf)).

Yang Xujun from Dataliance / UltraPower, which provides outsourced data analysis platform to telecom companies in China, have demonstrated why they decided to move away from reports prepared offline in Apache Hadoop / Spark and exported to MySQL towards ClickHouse. In short: Hadoop is too slow and cumbersome ([slides](https://presentations.clickhouse.com/meetup12/telecom.pdf)).

It might sound obvious, but the huge Chinese population generates insane amounts of data to store and process. So IT companies operating mostly on the local Chinese market are often handling amounts of information comparable to even the largest global companies.

Kent Wang from Splunk Shanghai R\&D center has demonstrated the current state of ClickHouse integration into Splunk ecosystem. Basically, they have plugged ClickHouse into their system via JDBC driver to allow data from ClickHouse to be easily accessed in Splunk UI and dashboards. Last spring ClickHouse team actually had a friendly visit to Splunk office in San Francisco to discuss potential points of interaction and exchange experience, so it was great to hear that there's some real progress in that direction ([slides](https://presentations.clickhouse.com/meetup12/splunk.pdf)).

The last talk was for the most tenacious ClickHouse users. Alexey Milovidov has announced some recently released features and improvements and shared what's coming next either in the short and long term [slides](https://presentations.clickhouse.com/meetup12/news_and_plans/).

Here is an over 5 hours long video recording of main meetup session:
