---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-a-19-pib-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saved-millions
ch_version_introduced: '28.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

[pricing analysis section](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#cost-analysis), ClickHouse is at least 200x less expensive than Datadog for our workload, assuming Datadog and AWS list prices for hosting ClickHouse and storing data in S3\. ## A small team with an enormous challenge [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#a-small-team-with-an-enormous-challenge)

When we [first released our initial offering of ClickHouse Cloud](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-cloud-generally-available) over a year ago, we had to make compromises. While we recognized that ClickHouse could be used to build an observability solution at the time, our priority was to build the Cloud service itself. Laser\-focused on delivering a world\-class service as soon as possible, we initially decided to use Datadog as a recognized market leader in cloud observability to speed up time\-to\-market.

While this allowed us to get ClickHouse Cloud to GA quickly, it became apparent the Datadog bill would become an unsustainable cost. This challenge isn't unique to Datadog; many modern engineering teams find similar issues with the [per\-seat pricing models of vendors like New Relic](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/new-relic-alternatives/). This is a common challenge for teams at scale, where the choice of data platform becomes the most important factor in any [infrastructure monitoring tools comparison](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/top-infrastructure-monitoring-tools-comparison/). As ClickHouse server and Keeper logs comprise 98% of the log data we collect, our data volumes effectively grow linearly to the number of clusters we deploy.

Our initial response to this challenge was to do what most Datadog users are probably forced to do–consider limiting data retention or [adopting aggressive log sampling to reduce costs](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/managing-petabyte-scale-logs-without-sampling). While limiting the data retention to 7 days can be an effective means to control costs, it was in direct conflict with the needs of our users (our core and support engineers investigating issues) and the primary objective of providing a first\-class service. Should an issue be identified in ClickHouse (yes, we have bugs), our core engineers need to be able to search all logs across all clusters for a period of up to 6 months.

For a 30\-day retention period (a long way off our 6\-month requirement), before any discounts, Datadog's list pricing of $2\.5 per million events and $0\.1 per GB ingested (assuming an annual contract) meant a monthly projected cost of $26M for our current 5\.4 PiB/10\.17 trillion rows per month. And at the required 6\-months retention, well, let's just say it wasn't considered.

## Choosing ClickHouse [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#choosing-clickhouse)
