---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-a-19-pib-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saved-millions
ch_version_introduced: '28.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

fundamental to us being able to build the solution in such a short period of time, and manage the infrastructure with a small team. We truly are standing on the shoulders of giants (aka the ClickHouse core team).

While this solution is specific to our needs, it is equivalent to ClickHouse Cloud’s [Dedicated Tier](https://clickhouse.com/pricing) offering, where a customer’s cluster is deployed on dedicated infrastructure, allowing them to control aspects of the deployment, such as update and maintenance windows. Most importantly, other users wanting to replicate our solution would not be subject to the same circular dependency constraints and could simply use a ClickHouse Cloud cluster.

> We are currently working on moving internal clusters (like LogHouse) into our ClickHouse Cloud infrastructure. Where it will be isolated in a separate Kubernetes cluster but will otherwise be a "standard" ClickHouse Cloud cluster identical to what our customers use.

## Understanding your users [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#understanding-your-users)

Using ClickHouse for log storage requires users to [embrace SQL\-based Observability](https://clickhouse.com/blog/the-state-of-sql-based-observability). Principally, this means users are comfortable searching for logs using SQL and ClickHouse’s [large set of string matching](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/string-search-functions) and [analytical functions](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/aggregate-functions/reference). This adoption is made simpler with visualization tools such as Grafana, which provides [query builders for common observability operations](https://clickhouse.com/blog/clickhouse-grafana-plugin-4-0).

In our case, our users are deeply familiar with SQL as ClickHouse support and core engineers. While this has the benefit that queries are typically heavily optimized, it introduces its own set of challenges. Most notably, these users are power users, who will use visual\-based tooling for initial analysis only, before wanting to connect directly to LogHouse instances via the ClickHouse client. This means we need an easy way for users to easily navigate between any dashboard and the client.

In most cases, investigations into Cloud issues are initiated by alerts triggered from cluster metrics collected by Prometheus. These detect potentially problematic behaviors (e.g. a large number of parts), which should be investigated. Alternatively, a customer may raise an issue through support channels indicating an unusual behavior or unexplainable error.
