---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-a-19-pib-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saved-millions
ch_version_introduced: '28.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

from cluster metrics collected by Prometheus. These detect potentially problematic behaviors (e.g. a large number of parts), which should be investigated. Alternatively, a customer may raise an issue through support channels indicating an unusual behavior or unexplainable error.

Logs become relevant to an investigation once this deeper analysis is required. By this point, our support or core engineers have therefore identified the customer cluster, its region, and the associated Kubernetes namespace. This means most searches are filtered by both time and a set of pod names – the latter of these can be identified from the Kubernetes namespace easily.

The schemas we show later are optimized for these specific workflows and contribute to being able to deliver excellent query performance at multi\-petabyte scale.

## Some early design decisions [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#some-early-design-decisions)

The following early design decisions heavily influenced our final architecture.

### No data sent across regions [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#no-data-sent-across-regions)

Firstly, we do not send log data across regions. Given the volumes even small regions produce, centralizing logging was not viable from the data egress cost perspective. Instead, we host a LogHouse cluster in each region. As we will discuss below, users can still query across regions.

### No Kafka queue as a message buffer [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#no-kafka-queue-as-a-message-buffer)

Using a Kafka queue as a message buffer is a popular design pattern seen in logging architectures and was popularized by the ELK stack. It provides a few benefits; principally, it helps provide stronger message delivery guarantees and helps deal with backpressure. Messages are sent from collection agents to Kafka and written to disk. In theory, a clustered Kafka instance should provide a high throughput message buffer, since it incurs less computational overhead to write data linearly to disk than parse and process a message – in Elastic, for example, the tokenization and indexing incurs significant overhead. By moving data away from the agents, you also incur less risk of losing messages as a result of [log rotation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#log-rotation) at the source. Finally, it offers some message reply and cross\-region replication capabilities, which might be attractive for some use cases.
