---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-a-19-pib-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saved-millions
ch_version_introduced: '28.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 7
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

from the agents, you also incur less risk of losing messages as a result of [log rotation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#log-rotation) at the source. Finally, it offers some message reply and cross\-region replication capabilities, which might be attractive for some use cases.

However, ClickHouse can handle inserting data very, very quickly – millions of rows per second on moderate hardware. Back pressure from ClickHouse is rare\*\*.\*\* Thus, at our scale, leveraging a Kafka queue simply did not make sense and meant more architectural complexity and cost than was necessary. In settling on this architecture, we also embrace an important principle – not all logs require the same delivery guarantees. In our case, our tolerance for in\-transit data drops is higher, as there is a second copy of the logs (on the instances themselves) should we need them \- although, we still look to minimize any in\-transit data drops as missing messages have the potential to disrupt investigations.

#### Improving in\-transit data drops [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#improving-in-transit-data-drops)

We currently have higher in\-transit drop rates than we are comfortable with. We attribute this to several factors:

1. Lack of autoscaling in our ingestion layer, which can be vulnerable to spikes of traffic when specific events are initiated in ClickHouse Cloud (e.g. an update). Despite (2\), this is a feature we intend to develop.
2. We have identified an issue in the OTEL collector where connections between the agents and gateways are not evenly distributed, causing “hotspots” to occur at the gateways where a single collector receives a higher percentage of the load. This collector becomes overwhelmed, and when combined with (1\), we experience increased rates of logs being dropped in\-transit. We are resolving this issue and intend to contribute the fix back so others can benefit.

We are not currently utilizing the auto\-scaling capabilities of ClickHouse Cloud, as instances of backpressure from ClickHouse itself are infrequent. However, as we address and resolve the preceding issues, our ClickHouse instances may experience increased traffic spikes. Up until now, existing challenges with the collector have acted as a buffer, shielding ClickHouse from such fluctuations. Moving forward, we may thus need to explore the potential benefits of implementing ClickHouse Cloud's auto\-scaler to better manage these expected increases in demand.
