---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-a-19-pib-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saved-millions
ch_version_introduced: '28.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 8
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

challenges with the collector have acted as a buffer, shielding ClickHouse from such fluctuations. Moving forward, we may thus need to explore the potential benefits of implementing ClickHouse Cloud's auto\-scaler to better manage these expected increases in demand.

Despite these challenges, we do not regret our decision not to deploy Kafka. By embracing this principle, our resulting architecture is simpler, cheaper, and lower latency, and we are confident we can reduce the rates of in\-transit data drops to an acceptable level by taking the actions described above.

### Structured logging [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#structured-logging)

We would like to say that our logs were always structured and cleanly inserted into a perfect schema. However, that is not the case. Our initial deployment sent logs as a plaintext string, with users relying on ClickHouse string functions to extract metadata. This was motivated by a preference of our users to consume the logs in their original form. While this still offered great compression, query performance suffered since every query incurred a linear scan. This was an original architectural mistake which we encourage you not to repeat.

After discussing the pros and cons with our users, we moved to structured logging, with ClickHouse instances logging in JSON. As described below, these JSON keys are stored in a `Map(String, String)` type by default. However, select fields on which we expect frequent queries are extracted at insert time as full columns. These can then be used in our ordering key and configured to exploit [secondary indices](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/optimize/skipping-indexes) and [specialized codecs](https://clickhouse.com/blog/optimize-clickhouse-codecs-compression-schema). This allows queries on columns such as `pod_name` to be optimized, ensuring the most common workflows are optimized for query performance. Users can still access Map keys for less frequently accessed metadata. However, in our experience, this is rarely done without a filter on an optimized column.

## Choosing OpenTelemetry (OTel) [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#choosing-opentelemetry-otel)

The decision to use [OpenTelemetry](https://clickhouse.com/engineering-resources/opentelemetry-otel) was our biggest design decision and thus deserves its own section. This also represented the decision we were initially most nervous about since the [ClickHouse OTel exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/exporter/clickhouseexporter/README.md) was relatively unproven for log collection (compared to tracing) when we started the project \- it was in alpha, and we were not aware of any deployments at our scale. Our decision to invest was based on a number of factors:
