---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-a-19-pib-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saved-millions
ch_version_introduced: '28.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

for log collection (compared to tracing) when we started the project \- it was in alpha, and we were not aware of any deployments at our scale. Our decision to invest was based on a number of factors:

- **Community adoption** \- The wider OTel project has seen remarkable adoption. We also saw other companies using the ClickHouse exporter successfully despite its alpha status. Furthermore, a number of ClickHouse\-powered Observability companies, such as [highlight.io](http://highlight.io) and [Signoz](https://signoz.io/), use OTel as their standard for ingestion.
- **Investing in the future** \- The project itself has reached a level of maturity and adoption, which suggests it will become the de facto means of collecting logs, traces, and metrics. Investments by proprietary observability vendors such as Dynatrace, Datadog, and Splunk suggested a wider acceptance of its emergence as a standard.
- **Looking beyond logs** \- We considered other log collection agents, specifically Fluentd and Vector, but wanted a stack that would allow us to easily expand LogHouse to collect metrics and traces later.

### Custom processor [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#custom-processor)

One of the common frustrations with OTel is the need to declare complex pipelines in YAML, linking receivers, processors, and senders. We perform a significant amount of processing in OTel collector instances (at a gateway layer \- see below) with the need to perform conditional routing based on the source, e.g. ClickHouse instance, data plane, and Keeper logs all go to separate tables with optimized schemas.

In our experience, managing this YAML code was error\-prone and tricky to test. Rather than relying on this, we developed a [custom processor in Go](https://github.com/ClickHouse/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/loghouseprocessor) that performs all of our required transformation logic. This means we deploy a custom build of the OTel collector, but we benefit from being able to test any changes to processing easily. This internal pipeline using a custom processor is also faster than the equivalent constructed from a declarative approach, further saving us resources and reducing end\-to\-end latency.

## Architectural overview [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#architectural-overview)

At a high\-level level, our pipeline looks like the following:
