---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-a-19-pib-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saved-millions
ch_version_introduced: '28.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 12
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

cost of their hosting. Importantly, they can impact our [operator's ability to pack ClickHouse instances efficiently on the node](https://clickhouse.com/blog/packing-kubernetes-pods-more-efficiently-saving-money), potentially causing evictions and underutilized resources. The following shows the mapping from node size to agent resources (AWS only):

| Kubernetes Node Size | Collector agent T\-shirt size | Resources to collector agent | Logging rate |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| m5d.16xlarge | Large | 1 CPU, 1GiB | 10k/second |
| m5d.8xlarge | Medium | 0\.5 CPU, 0\.5GiB | 5k/second |
| m5d.2xlarge | Small | 0\.2CPU, 0\.2GiB | 1k/second |


- OTel collector agents send their data to gateway instances via a Kubernetes service configured to [use topology\-aware routing](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/topology-aware-routing/). Since each region has at least one gateway in each availability zone (for high availability), this ensures data by default is routed to the same AZ if possible. In larger regions, where log throughput is higher, we provision more gateways to handle the load. For example, in our largest region, we currently have 16 gateways to handle the 1\.1M rows/sec. Each of these has 11 GiB of RAM and three cores.
- Since our LogHouse instances reside in a different Kubernetes cluster, to maintain isolation from Cloud, gateways forward their traffic to these ClickHouse instances via an NLB for the cluster. This is currently not zone\-aware and results in higher inter\-zone communication than optimal. We are thus in the process of ensuring this NLB exploits the recently announced [Availability Zone DNS affinity](https://aws.amazon.com/about-aws/whats-new/2023/10/aws-nlb-availability-performance-capabilities/).
- Our gateway and agents are all deployed by Helm charts, which are deployed automatically as part of a CI/CD pipeline orchestrated by [ArgoCD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) with configuration in Git.
- Our collector gateways are monitored via Prometheus metrics, with alerts indicating when these experience resource pressure.
- Our ClickHouse instances use an identical deployment architecture to Cloud \- 3 Keeper instances spread across different AZs, with ClickHouse also distributed accordingly.
- Our largest LogHouse ClickHouse cluster consists of 5 nodes, each 200GiB RAM and 57 cores deployed on an `m5d.16xlarge`. This handles over 1M row inserts per second.
- A single instance of Grafana is currently deployed per region, with its traffic load balanced across its local LogHouse cluster via the NLB. As we discuss in more detail below, however, each Grafana is able to access other regions (via TailScale VPN and IP whitelisting).
