---
source: blog
url: https://clickhouse.com/blog/building-a-data-warehouse-with-clickhouse
topic: how-we-built-a-19-pib-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saved-millions
ch_version_introduced: '28.34'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 18
total_chunks_in_doc: 24
---

general rule has been considered for other columns such as `Namespace`. Generally, these Bloom filters have been applied liberally and need to be optimized \- a pending task. The false\-positive rate of 0\.01 has also not been tuned.

### Expiring data [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#expiring-data)

All of the schemas partition data by `EventDate` to provide a number of benefits \- see the `PARTITION BY EventDate` in the above schema. Firstly, since most of our queries are over the last 6 hrs of data, this provides a quick way to filter to relevant parts. While this may mean the number of parts to query is higher on wider date ranges, we have not found this has appreciably impacted these queries.

Most importantly, it allows us to expire data efficiently. We can simply drop any partitions that exceed the retention time using ClickHouse’s [core data management capabilities](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/mergetree#mergetree-table-ttl) \- see the `TTL EventTime + toIntervalDay(180)` declaration. For ClickHouse server logs, this is 180 days, as shown in the above schema, since our core team uses this to investigate the historical prevalence of any discovered issues. Other log types, such as those from Keeper, have much shorter retention needs as they serve less purpose beyond initial issue resolution. This partitioning means we can also use [`ttl_only_drop_parts`](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/operations/settings/settings#ttl_only_drop_parts) for efficient dropping of data.

## Enhancing Grafana [\#](/blog/building-a-logging-platform-with-clickhouse-and-saving-millions-over-datadog#enhancing-grafana)

Grafana is our recommended visualization tool for observability data with ClickHouse. The recent version 4\.0 release has made it much simpler to quickly query logs from the Explore view and is internally appreciated by our engineers. While we do use the plugin out of the box, we have also extended Grafana to meet our needs through an additional [scenes plugin](https://grafana.com/developers/scenes). This app, which we call LogHouse UI, is heavily opinionated and optimized for our specific workloads and integrates tightly with the Grafana Plugin. A few requirements motivated us to build this:
