---
source: blog
url: http://www.resmo.com
topic: how-we-used-clickhouse-to-store-opentelemetry-traces-and-up-our-observability-game
ch_version_introduced: '0.9'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 2
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

quickly add up, considering the thousands of API calls per customer every 10 minutes. Today, there are more than 300 million spans generated by Resmo data collection per day and it is increasing rapidly with the customer size.

The usual approach to excessive volume of spans would be sampling. However, this can cause blind spots, making it difficult to identify issues on non\-happy paths of execution that happen rarely. To avoid this, at Resmo, we’ve chosen to use full tracing (no sampling) with OpenTelemetry but we still need to be cost effective. Many traditional observability vendors charge by the number of ingested events or per\-user, which can become costly without aggressive sampling. This restrictive model is a primary reason engineering teams seek out [cost\-effective alternatives to platforms like New Relic](https://clickhouse.com/resources/engineering/new-relic-alternatives/). Furthermore, only a handful of these vendors allow you to run custom SQL queries on that data.

At first, we wanted to utilize S3 and Athena. We’ve forked the OpenTelemetry collector to produce Parquet files directly to S3, adding very common span attributes (i.e tenant and user IDs) as additional columns for efficient querying. But, even though Athena can query vast amounts of data, it has a fixed startup delay of 2\-3 seconds. This can be annoying for the most simplistic queries, i.e we lookup traces by just IDs, or simple slice\-and\-dice aggregations. Additionally, for efficiency the Parquet files were generated every 60 seconds. Athena performance degrades by the number of files generated and in the end we’d still get delayed data. Realizing Athena may not be the best way to move forward, we’ve decided to try ClickHouse. There was already an exporter available in the [OpenTelemetry contrib repository](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/exporter/clickhouseexporter). Although it’s in alpha status, since our implementation 3 months ago we have not faced any problems.

## Storage and compression [\#](/blog/how-we-used-clickhouse-to-store-opentelemetry-traces#storage-and-compression)
