---
source: blog
url: http://www.resmo.com
topic: how-we-used-clickhouse-to-store-opentelemetry-traces-and-up-our-observability-game
ch_version_introduced: '0.9'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 5
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

our understanding of it, particularly as we began transitioning some of our high\-volume data to the platform. We have included some of our more common queries below to benefit others. ## Average and percentile duration of spans [\#](/blog/how-we-used-clickhouse-to-store-opentelemetry-traces#average-and-percentile-duration-of-spans)

This is the most obvious and easy one, but also one of the most used. Because often we want to search for outliers, and drill down from there to specific time frame, function, tenant or customer. Remember to always include a Timestamp filter, otherwise the query will end up scanning all the data. To make quick exploration easier, we created views as **traces5m**, **traces1h**, **traces4h** and **traces1d** to avoid filtering by timestamp all the time. We also created a parameterized view, that can filter on any arbitrary hours to simplify ad\-hoc queries:

```
CREATE VIEW traces AS
SELECT *
FROM otel_traces
WHERE Timestamp > (NOW() - toIntervalHour({hr:Int}))

SELECT COUNT(*) FROM traces(hr=5)

```

Queries which do scan all of the data also complete rather quickly, compared to what we’d normally expect, and are mostly limited by the disk bandwidth. Currently we use EBS, but we also plan to experiment with S3 backed storage with local disks, various CPU types and memory settings.

```
SELECT
    SpanName,
    COUNT(*),
    avg(DurationMs),
    quantile(0.9)(DurationMs) AS p90,
    quantile(0.95)(DurationMs) AS p95,
    quantile(0.99)(DurationMs) AS p99
FROM otel.otel_traces
WHERE Timestamp > NOW() - toIntervalHour(24)
GROUP BY 1
ORDER BY p99 DESC
LIMIT 10

```

## Combining data in Aurora PostgreSQL with ClickHouse [\#](/blog/how-we-used-clickhouse-to-store-opentelemetry-traces#combining-data-in-aurora-postgresql-with-clickhouse)

At Resmo, we primarily utilize Aurora Postgres to store our application data. Spans are generated using ClickHouse through automatic instrumentation. We create a new root span with `account_id` and `user_id` for every incoming HTTP request or asynchronous message that is processed from SQS.

Rate Limiting functionality in our product is manually instrumented with various keys. However, to avoid errors during testing, E2E tests are exempted from this instrumentation, and a shared secret is passed through an HTTP header for quick implementation. To monitor usage, the spans where the rate limit check happens are identified with another attribute.
