---
source: blog
url: http://www.resmo.com
topic: how-we-used-clickhouse-to-store-opentelemetry-traces-and-up-our-observability-game
ch_version_introduced: '0.9'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 6
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

during testing, E2E tests are exempted from this instrumentation, and a shared secret is passed through an HTTP header for quick implementation. To monitor usage, the spans where the rate limit check happens are identified with another attribute.

Since the inner rate limiting span lacks an account ID attribute, it's necessary to leverage SQL joins to identify this within the inner spans by referencing the root span. The span is then joined with the Postgres table containing account names, eliminating the need to duplicate account IDs to every span and lookup account names in manual instrumentation. Although it might look complex, it’s a very good example of why we love SQL.

```
SELECT a.name AS accountName,
       count(1)
FROM otel.otel_traces t
JOIN default.accounts a ON t.account_id = a.id
WHERE Timestamp > NOW() - interval 48 HOUR
  AND ParentSpanId = ''
  AND TraceId IN
    (SELECT DISTINCT TraceId
     FROM otel.otel_traces
     WHERE Timestamp > NOW() - interval 48 HOUR
       AND SpanName = 'RateLimiterService.checkLimit'
       AND SpanAttributes['rate_limiter.bypassed'] = 'true')
  AND account_id != ''
GROUP BY 1

```

## Get insights on SpanAttributes [\#](/blog/how-we-used-clickhouse-to-store-opentelemetry-traces#get-insights-on-spanattributes)

Although automatic instrumentation provides a lot of valuable information, it can be challenging to navigate through it all. [Map functions](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/tuple-map-functions) can assist in analyzing SpanAttributes by counting the number of keys and assessing the uniqueness of their values. This approach can help you explore the data in greater depth. However, it's essential to note that the query reads all of the SpanAttributes map, which constitutes the majority of the trace data. As a result, querying the data for an entire day can take a significant amount of time \- approximately 90 seconds in our case. Nevertheless, given the vast amount of data this query reads, the performance is still excellent. Please be aware that some of the output is removed for privacy reasons.
