---
source: blog
url: http://www.resmo.com
topic: how-we-used-clickhouse-to-store-opentelemetry-traces-and-up-our-observability-game
ch_version_introduced: '0.9'
last_updated: '2026-06-12'
chunk_index: 9
total_chunks_in_doc: 11
---

potentially pose a problem. However, at Resmo, we make numerous pagination calls and must execute additional calls for each of them in some integrations, so this level of span volume is anticipated. ## Searching Java exception messages [\#](/blog/how-we-used-clickhouse-to-store-opentelemetry-traces#searching-java-exception-messages)

With our backends using Kotlin, automatic instrumentation places any exception messages in the expected format in the Events field of a Span. We can search these using ClickHouse [string functions](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/string-functions). Normally, we create alerts for important exceptions and route them to OpsGenie. However data collections are prone to intermittent errors and we thus aggregate them. The following query searches for tokens in the exception messages using the hasToken function. You can also use the [multiSearchAny](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/sql-reference/functions/string-search-functions#multisearchanyhaystack-needle1-needle2--needlen) function, but it looks anywhere in the string and can yield a large number of results.

The most impressive part is that this data is not indexed at all (e.g. using [inverted indices](https://clickhouse.com/docs/en/engines/table-engines/mergetree-family/invertedindexes)) and searching for a days worth of data can still be done in under 5 seconds.

```
SELECT
    SpanName,
    arrayJoin(Events.Attributes)['exception.message'] AS message,
    count(1)
FROM traces1d
WHERE (message != '') AND hasToken(lower(message), 'exceeded')
GROUP BY
    1,
    2
ORDER BY 3 DESC
LIMIT 20

10 rows in set. Elapsed: 4.583 sec. Processed 314.64 million rows, 20.67 GB (68.66 million rows/s., 4.51 GB/s.)

```

## Show the compression stats for Materialized Columns [\#](/blog/how-we-used-clickhouse-to-store-opentelemetry-traces#show-the-compression-stats-for-materialized-columns)

Adding materialized columns speeds\-up queries, but they also come at additional storage cost. Before creating a materialized column for every attribute in the SpanAttributes, you should determine whether the performance would justify the additional storage cost. While SpanAttributes and ResourceAttributes take up the most space, currently they have an impressive 14\-15x compression ratio. The size of our materialized columns can also be seen in the results, with `http.url` being a notable example. Despite a 59 GB uncompressed size, it compresses to 3\.30 GB with an 18x rate \- as most URLs tend to be similar. Lower cardinality columns like `integration_id` have an even impressive 80x compression rate.
